Let's spend a few minutes talking about your base images.

That is the image that all your Node apps will be built on.

The default images are great.

We will be using those throughout this course.

We won't be making bespoke custom builds

of Node. I don't really think that's necessary,

in almost all cases, unless you're maybe Google

or Netflix.

So, let's just stick

with those unless you have a really,

really specific reason why not.

The first rule here is to stick to even versions.

If you've been around Node awhile,

you know that even versions are stable releases.

Odd versions of Node are...tend to be experimental

and new feature stuff.

All the LTS, the long term stability,

long term support versions,

are even.

You will notice, if you go into Docker Hub,

that the latest isn't always even

or odd. It's sort of just whatever is literally the latest build

of Node. That's why we don't tend to use latest.

I don't recommend using latest,

unless you're going to play around

with something locally and you just want to tinker

and experiment. That's fine.

You can just run Node without specifying a tag.

But, you'll see here on the GitHub repo for Node,

you'll see here the Node releases,

and you'll see how you have LTS's here.

You have the maintenance releases for the older versions that are really just

in maintenance. Then as of this course,

the active long term stable is 10.something.

So,in this course we will be using 10.

Again, this isn't really a Node course,

but I want to point out that any app you should be pinning

the version. A nice, cool thing is if we're always running our apps

inside of containers,

that allows whatever Node you're running on your hosts,

whether you're on Mac, or Windows,

or Linux, you can just run that as whatever the latest

version is, right. Because usually, that's just for running host utilities

or just to use NPM really to download host tools,

maybe. If you're running all of your apps in containers,

you can be very specific as to which Node version is running

and executing your code.

Whereas, on the host, where maybe it doesn't matter as much,

you can just do whatever.

That, for me, has allowed me to not have to use in NVM

or N, any of these Node version manager

tools. I can really just execute code

inside my container. Then if I don't really care from host

convenience perspectives,

I can just run Node and NPM commands on my host for whenever.

You'll hear a lot of people in the industry talk about not using latest.

So, we will maybe talk about this later in the course when we talk

about production stuff because that's kind of obvious.

You shouldn't just run Node random versions in production.

But, I say start early.

When you start your application development for some new app,

you're going to pick a stable version

and stick with that, right.

If you decide to upgrade to the next stable version,

or if you have a specific reason to use an even release,

at least know what you're doing

and then hard code that in the FROM first line of your

Dockerfile.

If we're looking at the official Node repository

on Docker Hub,

we can see that there's lots

and lots of versions. If you're not an old salty

hat with Node, a lot of this may be a little overwhelming.

I want to focus you here on a few simple rules that will help you decide

what you need to do.

All images, by default,

use Debian as their base image.

Which means, really, that you get the apt get package manager.

You get some core utilities, openssl.

Stuff like, you know, a bash shell.

All official images on Docker Hub default to Debian.

Which means you get the apt package manager out-of-the-box so you can

run apt get and the other apps commands like you would be used

to on Ubuntu

or Debian. They're all stemming from Debian,

and so that's a pretty popular release that people use.

Right now, the latest image is over 800MB,

so it's pretty big.

That's really for convenience,

to make sure that you have a lot the tools you might need.

Through this course, though, we will be jumping back

and forth between that

and Alpine. So,

I would recommend that you focus on Alpine when you

can. For most of the projects I work on,

if they're migrating an old app from pre-container world

into a container, usually what I recommend up front,

is to use the Debian-based image,

if that's what they were used to building in production.

Because that means that all their build documentation around using apt

package manager, or any other common Linux tool for that distribution,

will just naturally work in the Dockerfile.

The nice thing is about

Node is that we usually have very small Dockerfiles,

and they don't depend on a lot of host utilities.

So, it may not matter which base image

you use for your Node.

But, initially stick

with what you know, and then eventually consider Alpine.

If you're new to Alpine,

Alpine is a very small base image that has only the

minimal tools for Node to get started.

Again, these all have the same Node

and NPM stuff in them,

but the Debian distribution will have more

base OS packages that you might need for some of your

NPM package dependencies.

With Alpine,

you're going to have to make sure that Alpine supports those packages.

There might be some Edge cases where you

won't have, in the Alpine Package Manager,

the package JSON dependencies in your app.

So, realize that not every app,

especially more complicated,

larger Node apps,

may work flawlessly out-of-the-box doing an NPM install

on an Alpine base image.

But you can see in the Docker Hub page how

almost all these images have an Alpine variant.

If we were to look at the 10 track,

we could see down here that if I just wanted

to specify 10 with a default Debian-based image,

I could do that over here.

If you know.

So, basically if I typed in Node:10,

I would get this image because you can see here that I could

specify 10. I personally like to specify

10.something even so even the patch level of release

I would prefer to use. Then you'll notice that I have an Alpine variant

of that exact, same version of Node that's going to be much smaller.

Less than a 100MB vs over 800MB.

Then we have slim here.

And slim is something I don't recommend you normally use.

In fact, on this Readme page, they will tell you not to use it unless

you really need to.

It's typically a smaller version of Debian.

But really, that's what Alpine is now for.

Alpine wasn't around when Docker necessarily started.

It wasn't an image in the Docker Hub that was so popular,

and it sort of gained its popularity over time.

So, it's sort of become the industry standard for when you

want a really small image.

So, the slim isn't as popular.

Although, what's nice about it is it does at least have the

Debian Package Manager in it,

versus the Alpine Package Manager.

So, if for some reason you can't use Alpine,

then maybe the slim might be for you.

But, do realize that it has very little host utilities

and add-on packages in it built in,

so you may have to spend more time building it.

For those of you who don't know Debian releases,

if you're someone who cares about making sure that your

base package is on the latest version of Debian,

you would use the stretch because it is running

Debian 9, I believe.

Jessie is the older release of the base image.

Ultimately, it's really up to you to learn what the differences

are there and which one you care about.

There's a little history for you on the builds.

The last one I will talk about here is not to use onbuild.

You might see that and several of these options on onbuilds.

You're wondering maybe what the heck onbuild is.

It talks a little bit about that here.

But onbuild is actually a Dockerfile command that we don't use

because I'm not a huge fan of it.

In fact, there's a lot of discussion in the community around when to

use it, and that is becoming a far less common

use case just because it tends to cause problems later

on. Originally, onbuild was the idea that we could

make a Dockerfile, or maybe Docker Hub could have the official

Node image. Have an onbuild Dockerfile that sets

commands in that Dockerfile that would then be used in any

downstream Dockerfile,

meaning, your Dockerfile.

So, the idea was when you made your Dockerfile,

that things from the upstream Dockerfile,

from the official Node repo,

would automatically execute in your Dockerfile.

There are pros and cons to that,

but ultimately, what it did was it caused people to be confused

about what exactly was happening during their Docker build because there were

some things happening that weren't even specified in their Dockerfile

because it was in an upstream Dockerfile.

Long story short there,

generally don't use onbuild.

It was actually pretty neat for 5 minutes when I was playing

with it back when I first learned Docker because it would allow you to

potentially use Docker

with your Node app without ever creating a Dockerfile.

Pretty cool. But in reality,

with any sort of normal app,

you're going to want to eventually create a Dockerfile anyway,

so you might as well just do that out-of-the-box

and skip the onbuild fanciness.

