You may not realize it, but inside your container,

by default, if you're using official images, your apps

are running as root in the container.

Root in the container is not the same as root on the host.

Docker definitely constrains what that

container is doing. That's the whole purpose of containers.

That's one of the core tenants of the idea of containers is

that they're limited and they're restricted from the rest

of the system. Root in a container does not

equal root in the host.

However, we want to continue to reduce

the security risk inside containers, and one of the ways to

do that is to run your apps in the container as a non

root user. That means even if someone was able to break

through your app in the container, they wouldn't even be

root inside that container.

They would just be a standard user account with very little

privileges.

The good news here is that the official apps and

the one we're talking about here is the Node image.

The official Node image has a Node user built

in. It's just not enabled by default.

That's mostly due to the various issues

that least privilege can cause in a container when you

don't have full admin rights inside that little

container. That can cause problems.

Things like apt-get won't work or yum packages

won't work, and some other things might not work.

Doing an npm install with the -g won't work.

So, you need to take that into consideration.

I'll get to a demo here in a second, but my advice is

that you always enable this on every image you're using.

In all cases, I've used Node apps.

I've been able to get away with least privilege and

enabling the Node user to run as non root.

And that's great. There's lots of other security benefits

of containers, but we shouldn't just take it for granted,

and we should continue to try to reduce the risk and

use least privilege concepts.

General rules here are running this line

to enable the Node user.

After you've done your apt, or yum or apk package

installs because those are all things that require root.

Then after your npm install -g's,

if you're doing any npm globals, because those also

need root to install globally on the system.

However, you may want to do this before you do the standard

npm install of your application dependencies,

and that kind of depends on how your workflow is going to

behave. The biggest challenges with this setup

is that it will potentially cause permission

issues whether you're in development and trying to do

things in the container, like running npm install

while the app is running, and now you're not really root

anymore, so you have problems with writing files of certain

directories. Or maybe your app itself is expecting

write access to certain directories that it doesn't have

anymore because permissions weren't set up.

So, when you're running apps as root, you have permissions

to everything, so you typically don't have that kind of

problem. But the minute you start using the Node user,

you'll probably see one or two issues and they're all

solvable. It's especially important for you to understand

Linux permissions, how ch mod and ch own

work, or chown chmod.

Those those utilities are important concepts

for understanding how you get write access to certain

places and even read access to certain places.

That way you can set the permissions that your app truly

needs so that that Node user has rights

to what it needs, but nothing else.

Let's look at some commands.

To change the default root user running everything

in a Dockerfile to the Node user, you just

use the stanza user.

It's kind of simple. Since Docker has already created

the Node user in the upstream from image,

you can just use it here by enabling it with that line.

Unfortunately, that user is not the user executing

every type of Dockerfile line after

that line happens.

In other words, only the run command, the cmd

and the entry point command, only those three

commands will behave this Node user

command here, and everything else won't

necessarily do that. One of the big problems that you'll

see in a minute is using the workdir.

The workdir will always create directories with root

permissions, and so you'll need to go behind there, if you

need to change permissions, and manually set those

permissions on your own.

The second line here is a common one for me to use

in order to get around that permissions problem with

workdir where I'm manually creating the directories

I need and then changing those permissions to

the Node user and Node group to make sure that I can

do things like run npm install

and possibly write cache files, or TIM files, that I might

need in there.

Don't worry. There are lots of flexible options here

to get around all these limitations, including when you're

doing local development, if you want to just run something

in the container as the root user, if you

just do a docker compose exec, once the

user Node is in place, it's going to show up as

you being the Node user.

In fact, once you elect to use Node user,

any time you do a docker compose exec by default,

it will make you the Node user.

You'll be in the container as a Node user rather than the

root that you'd expect.

If you need to ever change that, you can always just type

in the -u root with any exec commands

and then you'll be the root user.

That way you can maybe add package commands in there and it

wouldn't deny you access.


