I'm now going to go through the assignment for testing

graceful shutdowns, and I'm going to do this twice.

I'm going to do this on a Mac, which is very similar to the

experience you would have on Linux.

Then I'm going to do this in PowerShell on Windows 10.

If you're running this on Windows 10, or any Windows

version really, move forward, somewhere around

half of the video.

You'll see it shifts to be from this screen

that I have now where it's a sort of typical looking

Mac shell, to a PowerShell with the blue background,

and skip to that. Then that'll be a similar experience.

The control C experience is different on each operating

system. So, I want you to sort of see what I'm going to see

as I do this, so I'll go through it twice.

This one will be for the Mac and Linux people.

The first step in the assignment was to use the assignment

Dockerfile and the Dockerfile that you

just created in the previous assignment.

So, if you haven't done that assignment first, you need to

do that so that you will have a Dockerfile.

Then, we're going to build that Dockerfile and run it

several different ways, to see whether or not

the proper exit is happening.

Here, I've got an image of

assignment1, and I built it as we built it in the

last lecture.

You can see here, in that assignment, we

added tini into the image, right.

We've got line 5 where I run the apk install tini,

and then we're running tini as a part of the entry point in

line 15.

So, great. Let's now run that image

and see what the experience is.

I don't want to detach this because if I do, then I won't

have that control C experience.

I'll need to run it in the foreground and then try to exit

out of it.

Ok, so my server has started. I technically didn't need to

run the port because we're not testing the port

being open, but we are just testing the control C and the

exiting out of it. If I control C here,

that should work. If I do a docker ps, I shouldn't

have anything running.

So, that correctly stopped the container because

tini was running in the foreground as the main

process, or the PID1. It was

then sending that signal to node.js

and then exiting the application. You'll notice that

did not take 10 seconds, so we didn't have to wait for

it to send a signal and then wait

seeing that it had ignored it, and then do a kill, right.

Tini takes care of that for us, so we don't have to wait

for the kill. Now if we do that same docker run command but

we add in the -d, add it

anywhere in the middle of the line there.

So -d. So it will run as a daemon.

Then it will run in detach mode, and I should build to see

it running in the ps command.

You'll see here that it is running and

indeed it's running on the same port that I specified

before because the other one has stopped.

So, I'm going to need to stop this, so docker stop,

and I can just type in the first couple of characters of

the ID.

So, in my case it's 3d. Obviously, it'll be different for

you, and it should return right away, right.

It shouldn't take 10 seconds.

So that's again, tini doing its job correctly, shutting

down the Node app. This still isn't it

actually doing a healthy shutdown

of connections, right.

That still requires code in my application

that we talked about as a bonus to this.

So, before we get to that bonus layer, let's

just talk about the difference between this and the entry

point, right. We're going to shift the entry point, and

we're just going to comment it out.

Then, even though tini's installed,

it won't run.

Let me just save this and

I'm going to do a docker build.

I'm going to call it assignment1. I'm going to give

it a tag of

notini.

So, I'll do that, and it will build a

new image tag

that won't have the tini executed

during startup.

If I run that all again, if I go back to here

and I go back to this run, and

I type in notini, then it should run

the version without tini in the mix, right.

But if I did a docker top on that

container, so mine started with a 48.

Your's would be something different, the ID.

I would see there that it's only

running the single process, right.

If I went back to the other one.

What's interesting here is if I took off the assignment1.

Now, let's take out the port so that I can run both of

these at the same time. It isn't really...we don't really

need the port anyway.

If I do that docker run -d there, and I do a docker

top bd.

Because that was the second container.

You'll see that there's two processes and that's what's

happening is tini is running first, and then it's

executing the Node app binary

for you, right.

So, that was normal.

That's what we expect.

The problem comes into play here, though, on this notini

container, so if I do a docker stop on that first

one, on 48, which is the notini one.

What you would expect to see here is it's trying to stop

Node. Node's not listening for the

shutdown signal.

So Docker waits 10 seconds and then has to give

it a kill.

Ideally, we don't want that, right.

Not only is it slower, right. Takes everything longer, but

you're not only not looking for

shutting down connections, but you're also shutting down

Node hard. So, Node doesn't even have a chance to do

anything properly.

So, you definitely see the difference here, right.

If I had that container, if someone

had given me that image and I had to run it even

without tini in it, I could do

something like this. Now, this doesn't even require tini in

the box, right. I could do a docker run

init, and let's do that again

on assignment notini. So,

this doesn't even require tini to be installed.

We talked about this a little bit earlier.

This is sort of something if I get someone else's image

where I need to run the image I'm just going to run that

with it injecting it at runtime.

That way, if I do a docker top on that

one, 15, it

does indeed have the init in it.

You'll notice it's a different location.

It's under /dev/init rather

than /sbin/tini.

So, that's a way that I could tell the difference between

one that I injected at runtime with the --init

and one that I installed and ran manually in the container

with a proper build.

This is the second part of the video where I do the exact,

same thing on a Windows 10 Pro machine.

I'm using PowerShell here, but you should get the same

experience doing this if you're on an older version of

Windows, or Windows 10 Home, and you're using the toolbox.

The big difference really here is just control C.

So, if I've already built the image again as assignment1

from the first demonstration, I

can do a docker run.

I don't need to specify a port here really because we're

not testing the website.

We're just wanting to run it and try to stop it.

So, I can do assignment1.

Remember, this is the one with tini in

it, and tini running in the entry point script, right.

Just as a refresher, we...this is what it looks like.

It was from the assignment last time.

We were installing tini, and then we've got it down here in

the entry point, and then it runs the node command for you.

If I go back to PowerShell and I hit enter,

it'll start up as it would on any OS.

But when I hit control C, like I would normally do in Mac

and Linux, this doesn't actually stop it.

So I can do a docker ps and you'll see it's still running.

So I'll need to do a docker stop to get it to quit.

So docker stop 7a.

Then I can do a docker ps and it should be stopped.

You'll notice that it only took a second for it to quit.

That's because tini is in there doing the work for

us. If I did that same docker run again,

and I control C out of that, and then

docker ps.

So, we've got this container running again, right.

Same thing. But if I do a docker top

on e8, so that's my ID, obviously different

than yours, you'll see that tini is in there.

And that's the route process, and then it runs the node.js

for me, so there's actually two processes running.

Cool. So, docker stop e8.

Then if I do a docker build just like I did before,

and I tag it with assignment1,

and I give it the notini tag.

That way I can tell the difference between the two,

different images.

Then if I do a docker run again, assignment1 notini,

and this is going to run the same thing, but tini is not

going to be involved, right.

Now if I control C on Windows, it still won't quit

it. And if I do a docker ps here, then

I should see that one container running.

I can stop it, but this time

docker stop 8b. Of course, that will be different for you.

But that's the ID there.

If that stops, you'll notice that it's waiting

10 seconds. That 10 seconds is a default

timeout before Docker will kill the image.

Or rather, kill the container, because the container

wasn't listening for the signal.

And that's a great example of how tini is helping us

without having to put any additional code in.

If I had an image like that, and I needed to run it but

I couldn't get tini into the image, I could do that

trick where I do a docker run with the

init in there, and that injects

at runtime the tini

binary that's actually comes with Docker out-of-the-box.

So, we wouldn't need even install it.

Assignment1 notini.

Then if I control C out of that, and then do

a docker ps, and see that it's

container ID 28. So do a docker stop 28.

Then it should immediately quit.

So, we know that tini is actually going in there at

runtime, and we didn't actually need it in the image

at all. Hopefully, you see the differences.

It's very subtle. It's really just the difference between

the control C on windows and that on Mac and

Linux.

All right. I'll see you in the next lecture.

