Multi-stage was a feature that came out in mid 2017,

and it started

with the 17.06 release.

It's been in there ever since,

and it's more or less stayed the same since then.

You can now rely on it,

but it was something that wasn't available just a few years ago.

It solves one,

major complexity as your complexity grows

in your Dockerfiles. That is,

how do we take a single Dockerfile,

with a single from, and single CMD.

How do we use that in all the different places.

Multi-stage replaces what we used to do,

which was create multiple Dockerfiles,

for multiple reasons, of the same code.

Or maybe we had one image for development,

and then we maybe had another image that was based on that

for production, or vice versa.

We have lots of different ways to make Dockerfiles

even with the same code.

This essentially gives us the chance to use multiple from's

inside the same Dockerfile

and then multiple results.

This gives us the chance to create multiple images from

the single Dockerfile that you would normally use in a

repo. This is great for us because it gives us flexibility

for environments.

The benefit of multi-stage is that those different parts

of the Dockerfile can start from other parts of the Dockerfile.

You can end up with multiple from statements that may

stack on top of each other as you're building different images

for different reasons.

Another thing you can do in these multi-stages of a single Dockerfile

is copy files between them to make your

different environments and to make sure that you have the tools needed in each one

of those. Besides the simplicity of a single file that does

multiple things now,

the other big benefits are security

and size. Those are both related to the fact that you

will no longer need certain things in

each image output that you maybe didn't need there.

For example, you may not want to have your build

and test tools in your production image.

This allows you to easily have different images for each

one and only include the proper tooling in the place

that it's needed. This gives you security advantages because

it presents less attack surface.

You can make sure that your images are smaller.

Those small images only have the tools that are absolutely necessary

for that purpose. Thus,

making sure that you don't have unnecessary tools that might have more

security risk or might have a bug in them,

and have those not in your production images if they're not needed there.

We call this artifact based images.

In fact, several people in the community,

like Kelsey Hightower from Google,

have talked about early on in Docker's lifetime,

that really what images should be is a presentation

of artifacts, not necessarily a whole

bunch of different tools all in one thing,

but really just the output of your code that's

the only minimal stuff needed for your production.

And that's why we talk about Alpine as a base layer,

just in case you can get away

with that.

That's a very small base image of Linux

dependencies.

Then as you take your node app

and you put it in your production,

this will allow you to have just the image

and it's node dependencies

and the minimum stuff in your production.

All the same time keeping that same file for everything else,

including dev and test.

Let's look at a really quick example.

A very simple one so we can at least get the basics of what this

is trying to do.

In this example, we've got, you'll notice line 1

and line 7 both have a from line in them.

You'll notice that the from line of line 1 now has

an extra part to it. We're saying from node

as prod. So that's basically us giving the

node image an alias of

prod. We can refer to that image in future

parts of the same Dockerfile as prod.

That just gives us an easier way in case you have a really long image

name with an image dependency.

This allows us to change that from...maybe we want a node

10.something,

but we're still going to call it prod,

so we don't have to worry about it breaking the rest of this file.

Then we do our standard thing right,

lines 2, 3, 4

and 5 and 6 are all sort of a normal,

minimalistic production node image.

In line 7,

we're going to build another image based on

the first one. That's where you see the from prod as dev.

We're now going to start from where the last image left off,

and we're going to start calling this new image dev,

and then it's going to add lines 8

and 9 to it.

Line 8 would just change the environment variable so that it's in development

mode, so when we start this development image,

or dev image in this case,

it is already set up for that environment variable.

Then we're changing the CMD to use nodemon,

and that would be used in a dev only environment,

right. You wouldn't want to use nodemon in production.

You'd want to use node directly,

like we have in line 6.

Normally, this would have to be two,

separate Dockerfiles. But in this case,

we're able to use this single file.

We could have as many of these layers

of from's

and different changes in each one of them that we wanted,

and they could all depend on each other.

They could all pull from different,

other unrelated images even,

and those could all be in the same file.

In order to build this image, you could just use the standard Docker build

command and tag it myapp,

or whatever you want to call it.

Then we put the dot at the end to reference that this is the same directory

we want to build it in, out of the build context.

That's fine, right. That would build the entire thing,

and the image would result in being the dev image

because that's the final part of the file.

So, it's still, in this case,

working from the top down all the way to the bottom.

We wouldn't gain the benefit, in this example,

of the two images, for two, different purposes.

The second example shows Docker build

with us making a specific image name just for

prod. Of course you can tag it whatever you want.

In this case, I'm just calling it myapp

:prod. Then I'm specifying a target.

That Is a new option in Docker build.

That option allows us to target a specific stage

and use the stage name from that file.

So yet another benefit of renaming that first line,

that first from line,

to prod.

In this case, I'm going to build a second image that's just

the first stage of the Dockerfile.

So, the resulting situation would be on my local

machine. I would have a myapp image that is

the dev image, and a myapp

with a tag of prod at the end. myapp:prod

would only be the prod parts.

We can get much more complicated from here,

but this is the first mini example that you might try out.

We'll be looking at some of these in an upcoming assignment.