Now that you've got the basics of multi-stage,

there's lots of other ways to create flexibility

in your Docker images that will benefit Node apps.

In most situations, you're going to end up

with some sort of testing infrastructure.

Hopefully, you get that automated at some point that's building your

images and testing them every time you're committing on specific

branches, or even all branches,

of your Git. In this case,

you could build a separate stage just for testing

that your CI infrastructure will run.

It maybe runs npm test,

or something else in addition.

But you can allow a specific stage that's there in the

middle somewhere of the image,

maybe after production

and before development,

depending on how you want to set it up.

And then you call that specific stage

with a Docker build command inside your CE giving

you a way to test before you build the final production

image. We're definitely gonna make this more complicated

as we go along to add more features.

In this case, we could also do an npm install of

development to make sure that our development tools like nodemon,

or gulp, or bower,

or something else that you need inside development only,

you can put that inside the development stage

and have npm run it a second time.

So you would think of having an npm install in the production

image, and that would normally install only your default

packages. And then for your dev packages,

you could specify only development in the second stage,

and we'll do that later on this course.

Also, another trick of multi-stage is because,

by default Docker,

when you build without specifying a target,

it will build all these stages.

So, one of the goals I usually have is to not repeat things.

I try to only have my copy command for my code,

copy in once during development

and not copy in multiple stages

or in a very early stage because if you're going

to rebuild your image to update your code

on your local dev machine, you really don't want that to happen a

lot or repetitive times over

and over. You really just want it to happen as low

as possible in the file. Like the same rules we have for every

Dockerfile. The good news here is we're definitely

going to be adding more multi-stage features as we build out

this Dockerfile for various uses,

like local dev and production specifically.

So, you'll see this Dockerfile get bigger

and bigger as we add more features to it.

