For this next assignment, you're going to build a 3-stage

Dockerfile. So, you're going to take the skills that I talked about

with the multistage of the last couple of lectures,

and you're going to do that sort of thing that you would do

to a normal Dockerfile. What I've given you is a sample repository

that we used earlier in the course,

and I've given you a starter Dockerfile that has 3 stages

I'd like you to build. It's only going to be a couple of lines each for

you to add what you need.

But, I want you to understand some of the benefits around the

production, versus development,

versus test.

So, you'll look in the directory sample multistage,

and that's where you'll have the sample app that we've used before.

You'll have the package.json file that you can look

at to see what commands are being used in potentially

dev or test environments.

You'll start in the Dockerfile from the top down using

the production first,

and then the dev second,

and then the test third.

They will actually build in order so usually your production

will only have the necessary things you have in production,

and development will have extra stuff.

Like things that are dev dependencies.

Your first stage will be production oriented.

It will run the standard Node command that you need for this app that

you can look up in the package.json.

It will install just production dependencies in

npm install.

There's several ways you can do that.

If you've been doing Node long enough,

you know how to do an npm install,

and there's a couple of options there.

I'm not going to give them all the way to you,

but you can use environment variables,

and you can use options on the npm command line to install

just the standard dependencies without the dev dependencies

from the package.json.

Then, on top of that, you'll have a new stage that is just for development

that will also do another npm.

And that npm install will install the

dev dependencies from your package.json.

In there, for this example project,

will be nodemon, as well as some other stuff.

That dev stage will have a different cmd

so that if you target that stage when you run it,

it will target that cmd

and have a different executable by default.

That you can pull from the dev line inside

the package.json. So, this is a great example of how if you are

taking an app that existed

and you were migrating it into a multi-stage Docker setup,

you would go through the package.json to look for the hints on how

you need to build this out. Finally,

the third stage will be test

and that's going to run npm test.

So, the cmd there would need to be the command that you would

see inside of the npm file.

You can either run npm test to execute

the script inside the package.json,

or you can manually type in the test

command from the package.json.

Either way works.

I tend to lean towards running npm test

just because that seems to be more of a standard for

npm users. That way,

if one of your developers changes the package.json file for testing,

it then would automatically run differently in your

Dockerfile.

You'll notice some inconsistencies because I suggest that there,

but I also don't suggest running npm in production.

In production, that's mostly around just keeping the npm executable

out of it. But when you're running test frameworks,

you're not really so concerned around the root PID1 binary

running and stuff like that. So,

you'll see that these are a little bit different based on their use case

for the cmd of each stage.

Then once you've got your Dockerfile in a place you think will work,

you're going to build each one of these,

and you'll use the --target of the docker build command

to target each stage

and build a different image for each one.

So, you can either do just 3 different named images,

or you can use the same image name,

with different tags at the end of it,

for the different stages that you're building out.

That way you can have all 3 images at the same time.

Then you can run each one of those images,

and it will effectively execute just the code

and the command and just the internals of each one of those

images. One of your goals here is to limit the number

of lines that you have identical,

repetitive lines between the different stages.

Ideally, you have no repetitive lines

and you only execute the copy commands once,

or any npm commands that would install

certain things or do certain things, that you only have those happening once.

I will do this,

of course, in the assignment answers.

I've given this a lot of thought

and I've been using it for years so your answers

may not be exactly, or as small as my example

will be. But, that's okay because if you're getting

a roughly the same size as I am,

and it's the output that you expect,

with the right add ons, the npm dependencies that you expect,

then it's fine. I think your process,

and the art of this, will change over time as you get more preferences

and the ways you do your multi stages.

And similar to just regular Dockerfiles,

every Dockerfile that someone builds will be slightly different.

If two people build the same Dockerfile,

it will be slightly different.

Doesn't mean that it's wrong. It just means that some people have different

preferences. Definitely check out the assignment once you get yours working

to make sure that yours looks similar to mine.

Good luck with the assignment.

