In this lecture, I want to focus on the features

that you need to have in your Node app just to make sure

that it's going to work well in Docker.

More importantly,

in cloud systems

and distributed systems.

Whether or not you're specifically deploying this in the cloud

is not as important as the fact that many of the principles that

Docker adheres to are also those for distributed

applications.

I want to highlight a few that you need to make sure that your

apps are considering when you're planning on deploying them

in containers. Most of the things in this section

are related to a 12-factor app.

But before we get into that,

let me just list a few of what the things are

that you will be working through.

The first one that we've definitely mentioned a few times,

and we'll continue to talk about throughout this course,

is using environment variables for defining

your environment configuration in your Dockerfile,

in your Compose files,

and also in your APT.

You've got to have it in all those different levels for the various types

and ways you're going to deploy your containers.

Another one is again ensuring that you're logging to stdout

and stderr.

We'll look at that in a specific lecture in a little bit,

but that's also another 12-factor principle.

And of course, pinning your versions of your application,

and your from images are common,

and we've talked about that, but also if you install anything

else in there, whether it's apt-get

or even if you do an npm global install of something

like nodemon, you want to make sure you're pinning those versions as well.

Even if you're hard coding those versions into the Dockerfile

with an npm install command, you just want to make sure that

basically for production, everything is a known

version and that two different builds of the image,

on two different days,

doesn't accidentally get different applications.

Like we've mentioned before,

making sure that your sigterm sigint,

these are something that we'll talk about in a second

with 12-factor. These are all common things that cloud

and distributed apps need to have.

They're also something that may be out-of-the-box

with Node app you don't get

and you need to make sure that you're paying attention to.

The last one here that I just want to mention is a .dockerignore

file. We'll talk about that in a lecture here in a few minutes as well,

about what that is and how to create it.

But before we get into all the details of all that stuff,

let's just focus on what a 12-factor app is.

And 12-factor is a website,

as well as a set of 12 principles

that were created by the creators of Heroku,

the team that built part of the Heroku system,

which is a cloud PaaS for platform-based

deployment of applications. It was actually around before Docker.

In fact, Docker the original company before they were known as Docker,

they were called DotCloud.They were

building a competitive system to Heroku.

So if you can imagine their mindset about how to

create this competitive landscape of something against

Heroku. And then they ended up just giving it all away

as an open source tool called Docker.

And then they created a new company around that to sell Enterprise versions

and all the tooling around Docker. So you can see that Heroku

and Docker have a strong history together.

Since Heroku realized that as they build out a cloud system

was going to need to have a lot of common principles.

They basically created a set of best practices.

Now, this has been around for over a decade.

So, it's definitely not new,

but it's still very relevant,

and a lot of these things are something that you should just follow for every

app you create that you're going to stick on a server.

Because they really are about creating

an application that survives a long time.

That it lasts many years without quickly degrading.

That it's able to be used amongst many members of the team

and shared in a way that makes sense to a lot of people.

They're really great stuff. If you haven't read through it,

just take an hour of your day

and read through...each page in it,

of the 12, is pretty short.

So, you'll get through them pretty quickly.

They're not even specific to Docker

or to even the cloud in general,

although they certainly are focused more around cloud technologies.

You can certainly use these in a data center

and in distributed applications of all kinds.

The point here is that containers are almost always going

to be distributed apps.

They're going to be something where two different containers,

even if they're on the same physical host,

are technically operating across a network using their DNS

names and essentially at this point,

they're acting like a distributed app even though they're on the same system,

right.

So, if we're using Docker,

we're already getting so much out-of-the-box that when you

read through the 12-factor, you'll realize that if you're using Docker,

you're getting a lot of that for free.

But there's a few of them that we definitely need to call out because

they're not going to be built in out-of-the-box

with Node or with your Docker setup.

We need to highlight them and focus on them to make sure you're

following those practices so that things will be easier

and will last better over the long term as you

build out your solutions.