Real quick, let me be specific about the config factor.

Of the 12 factors, one of them is config.

It's actually one of the ones that I consider the most important

because if it's not done right when you start deploying

your applications,

and considering all the different values that you have for

each environment, it will be hard work later to get these

things updated and make sure that they don't break when you deploy them,

and whatnot. What I've seen over the years is different

combinations of things where people possibly put hard values

to things in code. Some things they put into different config files

that are maybe not obvious

or hidden in subdirectories somewhere.

They're not well documented.

So, my goal is that whenever I'm developing

an app, that anything that I can,

for that Node app, it's going to pick up an environment variable,

if that's set,

to override it. Now, it might have a default that in case there isn't any environment

variable, it will set something.

Maybe it'll do a console log

or some other logging so that it's knowing that it

doesn't have a value so you can see that.

But, really what I want is that whatever I'm putting into

my app, that it's going to search for environment

variables, and all those environment variables are defined in

the Dockerfile. Now, you're also going to deal

with Docker Compose files,

and you can even have Docker Compose use a .env file,

if you're familiar with that standard.

You can set them inside your shell

or so many other ways

when you read through the Docker documentation on how you can change

and set environment variables.

Now, these are always things that you're setting on container start.

You can't change environment variables in the middle of a container

running, and quite frankly,

most apps wouldn't pick up a change even if it did.

This doesn't replace secrets.

If you're familiar with Swarm

and Kubernetes, they have secrets

and configs, or config maps.

Those are for changing entire files

or for storing secrets.

The environment variables shouldn't be used to replace those

things necessarily. But,

this is things like host names of your database that

need to go into the Node app,

or remote API DNS names.

Or, maybe just the username,

or the database name, that you need to use in your databases.

Stuff like that. Ideally you can use secrets through

secret files and maybe use environment variables as a backup method.

We'll be talking about those in this course as well.

But, right here, if you have a complicated app,

you may be frustrated

with just sort of the setting of all of these different environment variables

and how you have to deal with those in the Dockerfile

and the Compose file, possibly,

if you're trying to overwrite them.

Then also tracking them in your app.

So if you're dealing with legacy apps,

you might consider a tool that is

envsubst or environment substitute.

That's really what it does is it pulls out environment variables

from, and file you give it,

and then it dumps those into a template.

So, maybe you would have a different file in your configuration,

and then this would go through

and change every one of those environment variables in your app

with whatever you set when you started

Docker. This is a tool that you'll use in an upcoming assignment.

Usually in Node, we don't see it that much because

it's a more modern development framework so

we tend not to have such bad habits that we maybe

did with decades old programs where we kept all

sorts of hard coded settings and environment variables all throughout the app

that we needed to worry about changing on the fly.

Usually in Node, we have them all either in a single

JSON or YAML file,

or we're setting them in the app

but the app itself is looking for environment variables to change those.

If all this isn't obvious to you,

or something that you're definitely well versed in,

then please go check out the 12-factor website for

the config page. It's not that long,

but it will give you a sense of why you

need to care about this.

In case you're confused, what is considered config

and what is considered in your app.

The short answer to that is that anything that would change based

on either a test environment,

or a production environment,

or a dev environment, anything that might change in those three different

environments, is a config setting that you need

to pull out of your apps so that it's not hard coded in there.