Next up, let's talk about logging

and specifically how 12-factor rules

for distributed in container apps apply in

Node in this case, and specifically

with Docker, right, in Node. If you want to go check

out 12-factor on the log page,

read that factor because it does talk about the principles,

in depth, that we're going to cover here.

But, the real rule of that whole page is that you

shouldn't be creating a fancy part of your app

to transport,

or route, your logs out of your app into some other

place. We know,

based on previous lectures

and just general Docker rules,

that you shouldn't be writing your logs to a log file

if you can help it, and Node definitely doesn't need

to do that. In fact,

the rule here is that you shouldn't be using any third-party

tool in a way that would cause it to route

or transport that log out of the

container to some third-party system.

Ideally, you're not doing that

and hopefully you're able to use the Docker built-in

methodology, which is to use standard out

and standard error to get your logs into Docker

and then have Docker use the logging driver

to get your logs wherever you need them,

right. So, think of Docker as your transport,

or log routing system,

and your app just doesn't care.

It just needs to put things into the standard out,

like it normally does,

and you can use console log for that,

right.

I mean, if you're in super basic situations where you just need a basic

logger, console log works,

by default. It will put it out to standard out.

If you put it in as an error type of

console log, it will then go to standard error

and that will work with Docker.

But in most apps, you're going to need something more advanced.

Something like Winston, which is definitely the most popular logging tool.

There's Bunyan and Morgan,

and other stuff out there that you might consider

or might already be using.

But in this course, I'm just going to default Winston because that's the one

I have used and that's the default one,

really, for most projects.

It's definitely the most popular. It,

out-of-the-box, has a transport

that is console, which means put everything to stdout

like it should. That's really the only one you should be using.

Now, you might ask yourself, will do I even need those logging tools if

I'm just doing standard out?

Can't I just do something like console log?

Well, if you're not too familiar

with all those logging packages, they do a lot more than that.

One of their best use features is to scale

the logging. In other words,

if you're in development,

or you set node environment to development,

you can control the logging to really dump a lot of information

into your Docker logs.

When you're in production, maybe you only want errors

and warnings, or no warnings at all.

One of the best features of those is to have different

levels of logging so that when you create your logging

rules inside your app code,

you can say, hey this is only needed in test

or development and not necessarily needed in production.

That's not necessarily specific to Docker.

It's just the rule here is if you're using Winston

or others, only use the console transport

so that it makes sure that it gets out to stdout.

