Next up, let's talk about a file that I haven't mentioned yet.

It's not technically a part of the Dockerfile

or the Compose file.

It's the .dockerignore file.

This is very much like the .gitignore

file, if you're familiar with that,

which is designed to prevent any

unnecessary files that you don't want inside the git.

But in this case, with .dockerignore,

you guessed it, it won't be put into the build.

So, it keeps things out of our images that

we don't want in them.

First up in this list is the .gitfolder.

If you're using git, or any other svn

product, you definitely don't want those files

in your image. There's no reason for them to be there in almost all

cases. As your app grows

and has a longer history,

it's going to get huge

and you could potentially be using hundreds of MG

or more unnecessarily in your image that you just don't

need. Next is the node modules.

We don't want to copy those node modules from the host.

We want to build those in the image.

This will save us the step of having those in there so that we

don't have them accidentally.

Then any other files like node debug that you might accidently get in

there in your logs.

Lastly I always put in the Docker Compose

with an asterisk just in case I have multiple Docker Composes because I don't

really need that in there.

In terms of security,

if I potentially...if someone were to hack into my app somehow

and to get the files out of it,

if they were to see that file,

there probably shouldn't be any secrets

or anything sensitive in there.

But, it's definitely going to give them the exact design of how

my entire multi-level app works,

right. If I have an in-tier app

with micro services and I've got dozens of containers

looking at that Compose file,

if it was a secret, which it maybe should be in some cases

with private code,

that's going to describe all the environment variables,

and all the different parts of my app,

and what they're all called. That could give a lot information

that I maybe don't want in my image.

What's interesting here is to flip it on its

head a little bit, you don't need the Dockerfile to be copied

into the image. But,

I tend to like to include it.

I don't feel like the Dockerfile itself is necessarily

too risky in terms of the security to put there,

because it's really just describing the app that if someone were to hack

into it, they've already got that app.

They've already got all the information in that app.

So, just seeing the Dockerfile for that app is no big deal.

Of course, if this is open source you're creating,

it's freely available, so I like to have it in there

because that way,

when I'm looking at a specific container running,

I can easily see the Dockerfile itself just

by doing a simple docker exec cat

on that file and see exactly how that was built.

It's a little bit easier,

I find, to read than if you use docker history,

which will essentially do the same thing.

But, I find that just catting out this single file

is a lot easier for me to read.

I like to say that as my own little standard of

showing exactly when this one was built.

That way, for each image commit

that you're making over time,

the Dockerfile for when that one was built is right in

there, and I can easily compare two images

with that file without having to worry about trying to mess

with the docker history command.

The other one there is optional as you may

or may not want to include the readme.

Some people, they really don't want to include any documentation,

to just make their image as small as possible.

I'm a little more practical on that in thinking

if I've got such space concerns that markdown files

are really going to put me over some sort of limits,

then I've got bigger problems.

I would rather have the readme in there just in case someone

gets the image and wants to dig around in it,

especially if it's open source,

and they want to see what the image is doing,

and they maybe don't have access to the source code

or the repo. So, the readme is in there as a little helpful

tip, right. So, I tend to include those in my image

which means I will not put them in my dockerignore file.

We'll be using this file that you're going to be creating,

as well as the previous few lectures,

in our assignment coming up next about migrating

a traditional app.

