Now we get another assignment.

This section might have seemed, to some of you, deceptively

easy. That the lectures were short.

There was mostly just words and me talking about concepts.

But, this is where the rubber hits the road.

And you may have to refer back to things, might need a

little bit of Internet research on some things, especially

on the Node part of this assignment.

But this is real-world stuff.

These are activities that I do with my clients

every time I work with them on migrating their old

applications into Docker.

We've adopted the phrase, and actually Docker sort of was

the first ones to coine this phrase, MTA or migrating

traditional apps, rather than Legacy.

Legacy might seem like it's an old, bad app,

but we have lots of apps around that were created, or

started, in the projects before those

projects were used in Docker.

We might have been using that absence

way before Docker was even invented, or maybe that was an

application that was simply created recently in your

project, or in your company, or in your organization or

wherever you are. That was something

that was not yet in containers and now you want to put it

there. So, perfectly normal.

Happens all the time. In fact, I would say most

applications in containers are MTA's,

and that's going forward going to be more and more of

them as we take our old systems and move them into

containers, right. Not everything put into a container

is a greenfield application where it starts in containers,

by default, on the first commit.

That's pretty rare.

So, in this application, you're going to take a very simple

CLI app, a command line app that I've created,

that simply takes images and turns them into different

images, or slightly different, altered images.

This uses something called GraphicsMagick or ImageMagick,

if you've ever heard of that. It's a standard command line

tool for Unix and Windows systems that manipulates

images. We're going to have sort of a command line app

that imagine this was running on servers somewhere that was

operating on images that were uploaded, and it needed to

spit out something in a different directory, and it's been

running for years, and it's running on Node versions that

are old and stuff like that. So, this is real-world stuff.

It just happens to be a very simple app that takes a lot of

these concepts and adopts them into one little, problem

set. You're going to look in the assignment-mta

directory of this course repo for

this assignment.

You have three, main activities which I'm going to dive to

here in this lecture.

The first one is you're going to need to create a

dockerignore file to make sure that certain things don't

get into the image that don't need to be there.

Secondly, you're going to need to create the Dockerfile and

of course, you can create that first and then the

dockerignore later.

It doesn't really matter the order here.

Then third, you're going to have to change something in the

app because in this app, it's logging to a file using

the Node Winston package.

That's a very common way to log, and we talked about

it in an earlier lecture.

You're going to need to change the transport of that

from logging to a file to logging to the screen, or a

console, so that Docker can capture those logs.

Imagine you are the devops engineer for

this organization that's running this app and you're

sitting in a project meeting.

You probably didn't create this app, but it's now your job

to Dockerize and get it working on the servers.

Maybe you don't know anything about Node.

Hopefully you do because you're taking this course.

But there's not a whole lot you need to know.

You're just going to need to do some basic research on

stuff. The first is that the

application has a readme that shows you the basic

requirements. This is maybe what would be

the operations documentation.

It's obviously only a few lines in the file, but in

the real world, a lot of times developers hand operators

definitions like we need Node 8 installed, and

we need these directories, and this needs to be installed

on the server first before Node, and stuff like that.

That's in that file, and you're going to need to read that.

That's going to help you build the Dockerfile.

When you build this image, you'll notice inside this repo,

there are an in, an out and node_module directories.

The in is going to be where the

images come into this app, right.

This app is ingesting images and then spitting them out

into the out directory as

you'll find out in the readme.

Those two directories are not necessary in the container

because the idea is that we're going to run this app

in a container and then bind mount wherever we need it to

ingest files coming in and out of it.

So, think of it as a command line utility that will take

files on a host and then spit them back out to the host

from a directory to a directory.

We don't want those in the image, right, because this is

more of a utility that's going to process things on a

machine. Doesn't need to store those images in the image

itself, the Docker image that is.

So, you're going to want to make sure that in your

dockerignore, that you're definitely never including the

Node modules.

But you're also ignoring the in, the out

and the logs directory. Now, the logs directory,

traditionally with this application, was used in the code

with Winston to log the error and the info

output. But, we don't really want to do that anymore.

So, you're going to need to open up the index.js file and

change three lines.

Basically commenting out the old Winston transports,

and then adding a new Winston transport that simply goes

to the console. If you have no experience with Winston,

no worries, because really there's several options you have

here. One is you could just change that line

if your project allowed you to edit the code, right.

You could go look up on Winston.

In fact, if you go to GitHub and look up the Winston

package, in that readme, it tells you exactly

how to create a transport in order to log to the console.

I've even given you a hint here that you could just search

for Winston transports console and that would tell you the

line you kind of need to put in this file, and then you

could comment out the other lines.

Secondly, you could, if you weren't allowed

to change any code in this app, which is

true in some cases. We're just simply not allowed to change

it. We must get it working in a container.

You could do a symlink, or an ln command,

in the Dockerfile where the logs are going to go.

That's how the official Nginx app does it.

So, if you're curious how to link, or symlink,

those log files, you could go check in the Docker Hub

for the official Nginx and go look in the Dockerfile for

that one, because they do the same thing.

They symlink those log files into

stdout and stderr because they can't change the

app's behavior. In this case, because we have the source

code for this Node app, we could change that and that's

what I'm asking you to do in this because that's hopefully,

if you're a Node developer, you have access to change the

Node app. So, that's a better way to do it.

The backup plan there, and if you want to play around, you

could test simply taking that same

code and only changing in the Dockerfile through symlinks

instead of changing in the code itself.

You're going to want to run this app as a docker run,

and you will want to bind mount the in and the out

directories back out to your host so that it pulls

in those images from the repo that I gave you

and then spits them back out into the out directory

so that there's the results.

Really what this is doing is this utility is using

GraphicsMagick to change a regular

GIF into, or any image really, into

a charcoal-based one.

Charcoal is one of the filters that will make it look like

its hand drawn with charcoal, essentially.

In this app, there is an environment variable that it

depends on called the charcoal factor that changes

the way the image is drawn, and makes it look a little bit

different. It has thicker lines with the bigger the number.

Okay. You could go look up how the app works, but you know,

that's not really the point of this lecture.

Really, this is about you making sure that that environment

variable is set in the Dockerfile and it has a default.

Then also testing it when you run your docker run

command to see if you can override that environment

variable. Change it to a different number and see if you

get a different output in the image.

The outcomes of all this, now that you have that basic

information on the requirements, if you've run the

container successfully and bind mounted both

the in and the out directories, and

on your host, whatever file you stick in there, what other

image and I give you a few, some GIFs, by default.

You can throw any image you want in there and then run

this, and it will take that image and then spit out that

exact same named image into the out directory on your host

that looks like it was drawn with charcoal.

If you do it correctly, that will be the result

and you'll know that that works.

The next outcome is that if you do a docker run with the

--env to change the factor to something like 10,

that the image does look different when you open it

again. The next outcome is that we definitely don't want

any of these images either in

the in or out directories stored in the Docker image

itself. You definitely make sure that your dockerignore is

correct so that that works, and that there's no bloat

or unnecessary files in the image.

The last outcome here is that when I do a docker logs

command on this container, that I get the

Winston results, which will tell me which images it

has processed and if it processed them correctly.

By default, if you didn't do anything with the logging,

your Docker logs would be empty because essentially the

apps Winston module is writing those files that Docker

can't see. Now, you have those four outcomes

that are the results you need to have to consider this semi

finished. In the next lecture, I want to do this myself.

Of course, you can follow along there too, but give this a

shot. Spend some time on it.

You may have to go look up the Winston documentation to

check for that one line you need to add.

You can simply do symlinks if you wanted to do it that way.

Then everything else should have been self-explanatory from

previous lectures on the Dockerfile itself and

the dockerignore file.

Good luck and have fun.

