You should have already done some of the basics with

Compose and you know your way around that command line

tool. But, there's some things I want to make sure that

we've got down and specifically in

the file itself, the Compose YAML, before we jump into

specifics around your environment.

Throughout this course, you've learned proper

Node Dockerfiles, proper project

setup and a few other things like Compose basics.

Now what we're getting into is your day-to-day development

setup in Compose YAML.

For this, you're going to go into the compose tips

directory, and there's a good and bad file there.

I'm not going to read line for line the help I put in

there, but I want to jump around a little bit and show you

some big ticket items that I see a lot with

people getting confused.

This includes my clients, my students in other courses.

This includes blogs on the Internet that get it wrong, or

at least not as good as it could be for your local setup.

I want you to have the best setup.

Let's get to some of those specifics.

Obviously here, we're using Docker Compose for local dev.

That's the ideal setup for Docker Compose.

It was meant for local development workflow.

When I say developer, I mean anyone who needs to run

containers to do things. You might just be Web

Admin that's not really doing a lot of development, but you

need to run some Node apps, and maybe

do some stuff and sample test stuff.

Or maybe you're a DBA and you need the Node frontend and

you're going to be doing the backend DBA stuff.

Whatever. It just really means you're running Compose.

The interesting thing here is that the industry, and even

Docker in some of its documentation, has gotten a little

confused around the versions of our Compose file.

That's the first line in your Compose file defines the

version. There's three versions, 1, 2 and 3 and we

started out back in the day when Compose was created with

Version 1 and there really wasn't any version listed.

Then we got eventually to Version 2, and that gave us cool

things like networks and volumes, and stuff like that.

And then Version 3 came out a few years ago that was really

about clustering and orchestration.

I think some of us have gotten confused around what Version

2 and Version 3 are and why they're different.

Just to be clear here, Version 2 is not

outdated. It has not been replaced by Version 3.

Think of it as almost like a fork in the road where

Version 2 is really optimized for Docker Compose

command line local use on your machine.

Version 3 is good for compatibility

between local Docker Compose and something like Swarm

or Kubernetes. If you're not using these files with

specifically an orchestrator, then there's really

no advantage to Version 3.

Version 3 has stuff in it around deployments, and

high availability, and rolling updates, and stuff

like that. But, all those features that you would need for

local Docker Compose use are in Version 2.

In fact, Version 2 has a few features that we don't get in

Version 3 because they didn't make sense or didn't work

well in a multi-server cluster environment.

I'm working with the Docker team now to help improve that

documentation, but there's lots of places to figure out,

and how to say it, and what to say.

So, that's not quite up to date.

You're getting this before the documentation is even

updated. My recommendation: stick with Version 2 if

you're focused on local Docker Compose environments.

If you're not yet using Swarm or Kubernetes and you're not

using Compose files or Stack files

in those scenarios, then the only version you should be

using is Version 2. There's no benefit to Version 3 for

that. If we look over here on the Docker website, you see

that they've broken out the documentation into the

different the versions.

Version 3 tends to be the default.

It's the one I go to all the time.

But, when I'm focused exclusively on local development,

and I don't intend for that Compose file to ever be used

for Swarm or some production setup, then I will just click

on the Version 2.

That way, I am focused on the features that I just need

locally. I don't get to see the deploy features there

because those are really about Version 3.

Then I get a couple of things there that are exclusive to

Version 2, including the depends on, which a lot of people

on the Internet complain about, saying that depends on

isn't in Version 3 and they really wish it was there, and

it was very handy.

Well, it doesn't really make sense to have depends on in

a multi-server cluster setup because things

running on one machine can't necessarily, or easily,

depend on something on a different server,

right. In distributed computing, really the problem with

your app, that we'll talk about later in this section, is

that your app needs to be able to do retries and expect

outages of other things it has to talk to.

Any time you have two parts of an application running

separately, they need to have something to do when the

connection fails. Either they retry, or they just crash

and let Docker handle it.

Anyway, we'll get to all that later.

The cool thing is in Version 2, we get some features with

depends on that we don't get in Version 3.

There's other features in Version 2 as well.

You can control more hardware.

You can do devices and things in the YAML file

that you can't do in Version 3 because they just don't work

in Swarm or Kubernetes the way that you wish they would.

They're just in Version 2 for now.

This is why I stick with Version 2 when I'm just focusing

on local stuff.

Of course, if you can't tell, I may sound like I know a lot

about the Compose file and the Compose command line, but

really, that's me using it every day and studying

these pages. The Compose file page.

The Compose command line page, and I've referenced those

here as well.

There's a lot to it.

I live there every day.

If you're going to be using Compose as your main way to do

Docker base development, then I expect that you would have

those on your browser most days as well.

Even after years of use, I still reference them constantly.

If you jump into those files in the Compose tips area,

you'll see the good and the bad YAML.

In that directory, I'm in the good file right

now. I'm not necessarily going to read all these to you

because I encourage you to go through these and study these

yourselves. I'm marking in this particular good

YAML what's good about it.

It's sticking to the 2 version.

It's using depends on, which is good

in Version 2. We'll talk a little bit later about how you

can actually use healthchecks to get more out of your

depends on. As we scroll down, there's a couple of other

things good for using named volumes.

Named volumes will mean that your databases will stick

around after you do a docker compose down for the day, and

maybe go home after you've cleaned up.

Those named volumes will stick around as long as you name

them in the Compose file.

There's more don'ts here than we have dos.

I see a lot of things that people shouldn't do, so it's

kind of easier for me to just list those.

In fact, the don'ts file that you can take a look at in

YAML is bigger than the dos.

There's a lot of things I see people do that are Legacy

or just not necessary anymore.

Or, they're maybe setting defaults that they don't need to

set, and that's just an unnecessary step that they've got

to go through.

Two big, unnecessary ones there that I see people using are

aliases and container name.

Now aliases are used to have the service

named as something else.

So, if you called it, in this case my example is, the

service is called myghost and then they made an alias of

ghost. That way the DNS works as ghost

on the network. Just make your service ghost.

Don't necessarily make them separate.

Really, you should name your services what you plan to use

in the DNS for cross container communications

using that friendly name.

Using the alias here, to me, only adds complexity because

now it seems like I'm supposed to use the alias name when

I'm talking to this app from other containers and not the

service name, even though the service name works fine.

I don't know. I just don't recommend using it unless you

really have a good reason and you know why you need that

additional name on the network.

A couple other examples of Legacy features that people

still keep putting in that they don't need are expose and

links. Expose was for taking ports

inside your container and exposing those, or making them

open, on the container network to

other containers. This isn't the same as publishing a port

to outside your machine using the public IP.

This is just inside the container network.

Well, years ago Docker made the change where all

containers on the same network were exposed to all

the other containers. If you wanted to prohibit certain

containers from seeing each other, then you just wouldn't

put them on the same virtual network.

You'd create multiple virtual networks in Docker

and then assign the correct containers to the correct

networks. Once we have that ability, we didn't necessarily

need to control and limit through firewall

settings inside those networks.

If you're using other drivers, there's Weave drivers,

things like that, that are a little more advanced than what

I want to go through this course.

Those kind of network drivers might have extra

functionality in them, but the ones out-of-the-box tend to

work just fine for most people's local development.

You don't need the expose for that because everything's

already exposed inside that network.

The other one there is links.

Links were used a little bit with expose back in the day

where links were how you told two different containers that

they were able to talk to each other, and assigning them

names so they could find each other. Well, that's not

needed anymore because now that we have these custom

networks that Compose creates by default, those

networks assign the service names as DNS entries

for every single service on the network.

We no longer need the links to manually set up connections

because they're already all there.

All ports are open and all of them are in DNS.

Lastly here I will say, let's not

set defaults.

Sometimes that's okay if you've got a good reason.

Maybe there's a default that you sometimes need to change,

so you leave the default in place, and then occasionally

change it to something that's not default.

But, I see a lot of people setting defaults.

So, let's go to the bad YAML file here and I'll just show

you an example.

You'll see that I have some of the examples of the bad

stuff that I've talked about earlier.

You'll scroll down.

You see the bad example of the expose port, which you just

don't need anymore.

Here's a good example is in this particular

YAML file,

I have one database and one web server running the

ghost Node.js app.

Here, I'm setting the network on both of them to the ghost

network. I'm setting that in the webapp, and I'm setting it

in the database as well down here.

Then at the very bottom, I have the ghost network, and it's

using the default driver of bridge.

Well, that's all default.

In fact, out-of-the-box, when you run docker compose up, a

network is automatically created.

It's using the default driver, which is bridge.

That all just happens out-of-the-box.

There's no reason to add that stuff in unless

you need a more advanced setup of networking.

Maybe you need multiple services and different networks

for maybe a frontend network and a backend network.

That makes sense.

I see a lot of people setting up these and even in this

case, showing the driver local for volume

drivers which isn't necessary because that's the default.

I always try to keep my Compose files as simple as

possible. Those defaults are there.

We should trust that they won't be changing any time soon.

I would rather have 50 lines

of a Compose file, with the defaults just assumed,

than 150 lines with all the defaults set.

If you went through an entire Compose config

and set every single thing to default, you would have

hundreds of lines of Compose file that wouldn't mean

anything they wouldn't do anything.

