One of the potential problems you can have locally with

Node modules is if you're used to developing Node

on your host, and you're just doing an npm install in your

repo, which we've all been doing forever since Node was

invented, and that's fine.

When you're building a container image, one of the things

you want to make sure is that you don't copy the Node

modules from your host into the container image.

Especially if you're on Mac or Windows where the

architecture is different.

One of the reasons that matters is because some

of the Node module dependencies are built binary

by binary into a compatible format for the

architecture. A good example with that is the node-gyp

module, which is very common in larger, complex projects.

It's their design to build things

on the fly during an npm install for the architecture

that you're currently sitting on. If you do that on a Mac,

or on a Windows machine, and you're not using Docker,

then it's going to build for that architecture, you know.

It's going to be something .exe on Windows and then a

binary compatible with the Mac OS and the Mac

kernel. That's important to not put

into the image because the images in this case, throughout

this course, we're talking really about Linux images.

So, they need to have that node-gyp building inside

the image build. The way that we do that is like a previous

lecture talked about, using the .dockerignore

file and putting the Node modules directory in there

so that we make sure that Docker ignores anything

we do on the host.

Let me show you an example of that real quick using the

sails framework, which is a MVC

framework for creating websites.

It's rather large.

When you do an npm install of sails, it does create

a lot of Node modules, so it's a good example to show the

distinction and the difference here.

I have a sample sails app that just comes out-of-the-box,

and I've created a simple Dockerfile.

If I just cat that Dockerfile.

You'll see this looks pretty standard compared to some

simple stuff we've done in the course already.

If I do a build of this file, so I just do a

docker build.

Tag it with sailsbret

or whatever you want to call it.

When we do that, you'll see that the first thing it does is

it creates the build context and

ships it over to the engine.

And if you're not aware of what Docker is doing in the

background here, it's actually tarring up all the files

in the current directory, and all subdirectories,

into a big file, then shipping them over to the

engine, and then extracting them.

In this case, because I'm on a Mac that's in a Linux VM,

so I had to send 180MG worth of data that

you can see there, just before it can start building.

That's a pretty big thing for just a sample little app,

right. If I do that same build, but after

we create the dockerignore file.

And in this case, just because of this particular

framework, you can see here that they have

their own .gitignore that they've already created.

Chances are, your .dockerignore is going to be very

similar to any .gitignore recommendations that you're using

in a project. Of course, all Node projects and all projects

in general aren't going to have this file.

But in this case, it's nice and simple.

I could just do a copy of that gitignore

into a dockerignore and see if that works

for me, right. I could start from that.

Sort of dive into the file and away

we go. I could just create a generic dockerignore file

and only copy in the Node modules but I happen to know

that if I do a cat on that dockerignore file,

that it does include a lot of things, log files,

temp directories, stuff like that, including the Node

modules right there.

So, I know it's not going to be copied in.

If I do that same docker build, with the same tag.

Watch what we see there. When I build, it only copies

over 3.7MG instead of 180MB.

That's a huge difference, and that was all nothing but the

Node modules. So, even when you're doing local development,

you want to make sure that you've included

that .dockerignore for all Node apps.

