One source of contention when you are developing

locally, and you've got Node modules on your host,

and you've got them in the container, is that they might be

incompatible. If you're on Mac OS, or Windows, that

Node modules that you may have installed on your host OS,

may not work inside your container.

In fact, we really don't want to mix the two, right.

The idea of Docker, or one of our goals here, is that

everything is acting the same on every platform.

We're getting the same Node modules inside

the container. The ones that are built in the image and

ideally those are the same, right.

If you've ever done Node development on your native

host, you've got that node modules directory designed

for your host architecture sitting there in your repo.

So, what do we do about that?

Well, there's two answers to this problem that I think

work well. The first one is easier

to get started and simpler for maybe your own projects if

you're just a single person. If you're more in a team

environment, we've got to take more into consideration,

more ways that people might develop their apps, then the

second option is going to be more likely for you

to use. It's a little more work and a little more complex

in concept, but they both work well.

They just have different processes.

The first one essentially has you doing your npm install

inside the container and then when there's the bind

mount to your host, it will then put those Node

modules on the host OS.

Which means that you can't do Node development natively

on your host anymore because those Node modules are

designed for Linux.

This may not really matter if you're not using binary

stuff like node-gyp would build for you, but in

a lot of cases, this will have a problem if you're trying

to use these across the different OS's.

So, this would mean that you would need to do everything

in Compose. Which if you're doing Docker development and

that's the way you're going to stick with it, then great.

This first method works fine.

The second one is more where we're going to

move node modules in the container and then we're going to

hide the ones on the host so that they don't conflict with

each other. In this first solution, it's easy

to get started because it doesn't require any special setup

in your Dockerfile or in your Compose.

However, it does mean that you need to run a docker compose

run to get the npm installed

inside the container, but sort of sending those

files to your host through the bind mount.

We'll see an example in a second.

So, you have to do that docker compose run to get things

started before you can ever do a docker compose up.

This is the one where we're storing the node modules in the

container. We're actually storing those inside the bind

mount that's going to the host OS.

This will be a little easier to make sense when I show you.

I'm in a sample Express app, a very simple generated

Express app here, that if I just

look at the Dockerfile. If I just do a cat dockerfile,

you can see it's a very standard setup, similar to our last

lecture where we're just copying in the package

files. Then we're doing an npm install.

Then we're running the standard node express

directory and file.

That makes sense, right.

There's nothing special about that. If we look at the

Compose file,

this also is very simple. It's got just a standard build

statement there to build everything in the current

directory. It's opening up the default port on express.

Then we're bind mounting the current directory

that we're in in our repo into the app directory in the

container. That means that the node module subdirectory

goes with it.

But if I list the stuff in this directory, you'll see that

there's no node modules directory on my

host. That's because I've never run npm install on my host.

Because if I'm always doing development in Docker, why do I

need to do that, right? I don't need to have npm install on

my host. In theory, I could have none of those tools

installed and just do everything inside of Docker.

Reality is though, you're probably going to have the stuff

on your host, right. It's just convenient to have there.

But, I don't want to do an npm install.

Because if I do, it'll get the binaries and stuff that are

specific to Mac, not the Linux VM I need to be in.

So, if I do just a docker compose up,

what's going to happen?

It's going to fail and you're going to get this cannot find

module error. Depending on the application, it will be a

different module that it can't find.

But this is a clear indicator that it tried to start

the app, but the dependencies aren't there.

That's why it's saying can't find module.

The node modules are just not found.

That's because I'm bind mounting, remember, from that

Compose file. I'm bind mounting the host into the

container. So, the first thing here is I get a lot of

people that ask, why do I have this error?

It works when I do a docker run, but when I do docker

compose with a bind mount, it doesn't work.

That's just because if I go into that container

and I did and ls in the app directory, it would be ls'ing

the host which as we can see, has

no node modules.

Some people then would mistakingly run an npm install

on the host, which would probably not get you the desired

result you're looking for. The run command is great at this

because it doesn't require, like an exec, that the

container already be running.

It can just start a new one.

So, docker compose run.

Then I want to pick the service.

If you remember in our Compose file, the service was called

express. Then, I just need

to run whatever command I want to run in that container.

I can do here an npm install.

What this will do is it will act as if it's running

npm install for the first time in the container, but it's

writing all those files into the node modules,

inside the bind mount, on my host, in my current directory.

Now, if I do an ls, I'll have a node modules.

If I do an ls of that node modules, I'll have all my

stuff there that I would expect for this express app.

So great.

Now, I can do my docker compose up.

My app works because it sees a node modules

inside the bind mount.

That first solution you will see that the benefit there is

it's easy to get started. It doesn't require anything

special. But the challenges is that node modules

on your host is now always designed for running in the

container. What if you work in an environment where you

can't always assume that.

Maybe you're working in a team where some people just

aren't using Docker yet. Or you just want the flexibility

to be able to run things in the container.

But, if you just need to edit something quickly, that you

can just run on the host without actually having to do

docker compose up. Maybe you'd like that flexibility.

In more advanced scenarios where you want to have these

node modules on the host be for the host OS,

and then the node modules in the container be for the

container OS, you just need a slightly different setup.

What we need to do here is edit both the Dockerfile and

the Compose file to relocate the node

modules. In fact, what we are doing is we're moving

the node modules permanently in that

Dockerfile so that when it builds the image, it's going to

move it up a directory.

This is part of the Node standard

where Node will look for a node modules in the current

directory of the app, and then it will go up to the parent

directory and look for it there, if it doesn't find it, and

then keep working up the directory chain until it finds a

node module directory.

The first thing I need to do here is move the working

directory so that I have a parent.

I could do something simple like this, just saying the work

directory is node/app.

I want to put the code in this directory, this

node/app. I would need to move that down here before the

copy.

Up here, before we copy in the package files, we actually

want the node modules now to be in that root

directory. So, I would need to do a workdir.

And then Node here.

Hopefully, that makes sense.

What I'm essentially doing is getting the node modules

out of my app directory and moving it up.

Most apps in Node do support this.

There are a few still that just won't work with node

modules and they don't adhere to the Node standard for

this. In that case, you're going to have to go with

solution 1 from earlier.

But in this case, most modern frameworks do support this.

That's the first part, so we'll need to rebuild the image

and that node modules will be moved up a slot.

But, we need to also go into the Docker Compose and

change a few things there.

On this volumes, obviously we have to change this because

we want to mount it now into node/app.

We need to do something about the node

modules on the hosts.

Remember in this example, I might be developing on my host

and that node modules will exist.

It turns out in Node that the node modules, if it

exists in your current directory, will always

be used regardless of whether there's one in the parent

working directory. We have to now hide the one that's

coming from the host.

What we can do here is simply create a new volume

for that expected node modules

coming in from the host by just doing a node app

node modules.

What this is going to do here is create an anonymous

volume, because we don't really need to keep this at that

location. We're basically putting

a volume inside of a bind mount, which is

a little weird. It actually works.

It will mean that when the container is running, the node

modules inside the app directory will be

hidden. It'll be there but it'll be empty.

Then the app will go looking to the directory above it for

node modules there.

Let's run this and see if it works.

For this setup, I do, though, want to do an npm install

on the host to simulate the idea

that I'm maybe editing sometimes on the host, and maybe

editing sometimes in the container.

I do want that node modules to exist in my

host OS just to ensure that things work.

If I do an ls here, I'm going to have node modules.

If I do an ls node modules.

Of course, this node modules is specific to my Mac OS.

So, it's going to be different than what's running in the

container. If I do a docker compose build,

it's going to rebuild that image and essentially move that

node modules directory up a notch in the directory

structure.

Now, let's do a docker compose up.

I'm going to do a -d here.

Let's do a docker compose ps just to make sure that this

thing is running as expected. OK. It's running in there.

Let's go in and test it.

I'm going to do a docker compose exec

bash into that express app.

Now I'm in that directory. If I do an ls, I should see a

node modules there. But if I do an ls on node modules,

there's nothing in there.

If I do an ls on the node modules that's up

a directory, that's

where the stuff is at. So, you can see that this example is

great because it gives me more flexibility about where and

how I run Node.

It doesn't conflict with the host.

If I'm running on any OS, this will work, whether it's

Mac, Windows or Linux.

It doesn't require any special start, like an npm run,

what we had in the solution 1.

I prefer this one generally just because I'm used to

it. I know it works well.

On a few apps out there, sails, for one, at least at the

point of recording this video, I know that sails.js is one

of the few that still doesn't work with moving node modules

up a directory. It just doesn't work for local development.

It's a known issue that they haven't fixed.

Hopefully, these two options are flexible enough for you

and make sense. We're going to be using them throughout the

rest of this course.

