Now that you've got your app running in Compose

and things are going well, the first thing you're going to

probably think of next is, how do I run all these

other commands, like npm and Yarn, and application-specific

commands, if I'm sitting outside on my command line and not

inside the container?

And, so you might think, well let me just do a docker exec,

but remember, in Docker Compose, we have

almost all of the standard Docker commands as

docker-compose commands, and they're easier to use.

There's two ways you normally run

these commands in Docker Compose.

The first one is "docker-compose run", which most people

don't realize is quite convenient, and I use quite

frequently when I don't necessarily have the containers

running, and I just need it to spin up a container from my

image, include my bind mount, and all my environment

settings like I would have in the Docker Compose file.

Then run something against the app, maybe

a special command on the app.

Maybe it's an "npm install" command.

Something like that, right.

That run will create a new container from

the image. The other option is "docker-compose exec",

and that's the one we're probably familiar with.

That's the one that runs an existing container.

It will create a new shell, or a new

connection, for a command inside that running container.

It does require that the container is already running.

You've probably done a "docker-compose up" already.

Now you would do a "docker-compose exec" to get inside

there.

I use this for one-off commands, as well as getting shells

in this container just so that I can sit in there and

do things on the fly while the app is running.

Let me show you a couple of demos to see what I'm talking

about here. I'm going to use Strapi.

Strapi is a Node-based CMS tool, and it

basically creates the backend for content.

You would maybe put something like Vue.js or

something else in front of it. It creates its own little

web portal. Often, you need to do command line stuff.

Like the first thing you might need to do, in this case, is

"npm install". Then you might need to run some special

strapi commands. We need to do all of that inside the

container. In this project I have, you can see

that I only have the raw project

files from source code. I don't have the node_modules.

So, if you remember from the previous lecture, we talked

about different ways to do bind mounting.

In this case, I'm using the first method.

If I just cat out my docker-dompose.yml,

you'll see that I'm bind mounting the

app directory into /app inside the container.

If you look at my Dockerfile, you'll

see that I have the working directory as a single

place. So, in this case I've chosen the previous

lecture's Solution 1, where I'm only

creating the bind mount in one place.

I'm not moving the node_modules somewhere else, so

this is a simpler setup.

It turns out that with Strapi, it's one of the tools it

doesn't work well with that second solution from the

previous lecture.

I have to do this. I have to keep the node modules as a

subdirectory of my app for it to work.

At least for me, I had to do that.

Here, my first thing to do would be to run docker-compose.

Instead of doing an up, it would just fail, right.

It wouldn't work. So, I have to do an "npm install"

against the API, which is the service,

not the container, but the service that runs this

container. That's one of the, you know, unique things about

Docker Compose is I can run commands against services,

and I don't have to know the specific container name.

I do a "docker-compose run" against the

API service.

Then I just want to do an "npm install".

The reason I chose to do the run command there is I didn't

already have this running. In fact, I couldn't have this

running because "docker-compose up" would have just failed

with being no modules there.

If I do an ls on this directory, you'll see I have the node

modules as we would expect.

Now I can do a "docker-compose up", which

will bring up both the Mongo database in this solution,

as well as the API.

In this example, where you can look at the "sample-strapi"

directory inside of my repo, I now have

a server running. It's actually running on port 3030

because of the Compose file.

But, I need to do other things inside there, like run

strapi commands. So, I can bring up another terminal,

and I can run "docker-compose exec".

I could do one-off commands here.

I could actually say something like "docker-compose exec

api".

That's the name of the service.

And then strapi.

Just do a help in case I wasn't sure of the command

structure there. Each one of these, it would

connect into the application and then run the command.

Obviously, a faster way, if you're going to run lots of

commands, is to just get a shell into there.

Because we're using default Debian, it's going to have the

bash shell. So, I can just do exec API bash.

Notice I don't have to do the -it because exec and run

already assume that and give you those.

This would be maybe something I would do more often.

I would just sit in here, in one terminal, while the other

terminal is running my logs.

I could perform stuff against my application, like strapi

commands, right from inside this terminal.

