Within a few days of you trying to use Node with multiple

services in the Compose file, whether you've got a database

behind it, or you've got an API with a frontend, or

something else, you're going to run into a couple of these

problems around startup order, dependencies,

connection errors and stuff like that.

This is all centered around a couple of key problems that

you can solve. It's just not quite obvious out-of-the-box.

You'll know you've got issues when you do something like a

docker compose up and your Node app errors and

exits. But, your database was starting up and so maybe your

Node app got started first.

Or maybe the Node app started so quickly it actually said

it could not resolve the DNS name of something else that it

depends on, like a database.

Or, maybe you're using the Docker Compose feature where

you can specify the service.

So, if you have a bunch of services and you don't want to

spin them all up, you just do a docker compose up with

the service name. And that's great.

But, that service might need something else to be running

for it to even work, like a database.

So, there's a dependency going on there that you need to

clarify in the Compose file.

Really we're talking about three concerns here.

Dependency awareness, and that's mostly using the depends

on feature inside the Compose file.

Name resolution because that's how services find each

other. That's using DNS inside the Docker Engine

on the Docker networks.

And connection failure handling.

So what happens when your Node app starts up and it can't

talk to the database yet because the database isn't ready?

Or maybe you take the database down and the Node app

still needs to talk to it.

That sort of stuff.

The first feature here that you probably are already using,

or at least heard of, is the depends on feature.

There is a little bit of confusion around this one as well

because this key feature for Docker Compose local

CLI has changed between Version 2

and Version 3 of the Compose file.

That's why I stress you should be using the V2 version

of that file because we get more out of the depends on

feature.

And out-of-the-box with depends on, it's really only

about dependency relationships.

It's not about, by default, making sure that your database

is ready for connections when you start up your Node app.

That's disappointing to a lot of people when they just turn

it on and think that it's going to suddenly work if they

just say inside of their Node app configuration,

depends on Mongo, or something like that, and they

realize that that's not enough.

But, it does solve two important parts of this puzzle.

The first is DNS.

Often, what'll happen is your Node app will instantly start

up and search for a name like the service name of a

database, or another API or something, inside your Compose

file. If it gets a DNS name not found,

often with the way the DNS caching works, the app

just error out and not retry.

It won't try again. It'll just say, this name doesn't even

exist and it will exit.

So, this depends on ensures that at least

anything that your app depends on, any of that service

depends on, those things start first.

Doesn't mean that they're ready first.

It just means they've started.

That means that their DNS name will at least resolve to

their proper IP in the Docker networks.

Reminder here, that we're really talking about local Docker

Compose CLI use.

There's a little bit difference of a setup if you're going

to be in production and how you're going to deal with all

these problems. Something you'll see in the next lecture,

is we can add on a feature to the waits on

in the YAML that truly does give us a

waits for like experience where it will wait

on dependencies like a database to truly be ready for

connections using a Docker healthcheck.

We don't get that in Version 3 of the YAML.

That's why it's important to stick with Version 2.

The other common feature here that's shown a lot in

examples in blogs, and in the Docker official images, is

the restart. This is a little bit of a weird one

because I often don't like using restart

on my apps when I'm using Docker Compose locally because

there is a good and a bad side to the setting.

The good part about it is that if your Node app fails on

startup because maybe some dependency, like a database,

isn't ready, it will restart the Node app.

That's Docker restarting the container when the container

crashes. A better way to do this, really, is

to use the depends on so that you don't have that problem

to begin with.

The bad part about this feature, if you set it on

web apps, or Node apps, is that you can get

into a restart cycle with that in Docker Compose

where it's constantly restarting your frontend app,

waiting on a database to load or something.

It can get CPU spikes.

It may not be obvious to you if you're not looking straight

at the logs or at the ps command where you can see things

going up and down. You may not realize that it's spinning

and cycling through the app over and over again.

I tend to, out-of-the-gate with my apps, not

do the restart.

The default is off where it won't restart at all.

If my app exits, then I've probably got something else I

need to look at. Either there's a problem with the app

itself, which wasn't going to get fixed with a restart.

Or, it's something to do with my depends on, and I need a

better depends on in healthcheck to make sure that my apps

are coming up and waiting for the proper order.

The real, long-term solution here, especially

for production, is to build waits

and restarts inside your apps.

When you're talking about distributed computing, and

everything we're building nowadays is somewhat distributed,

you've definitely got at least a Node app and something

else it needs to talk to. It's rare to have just a single

container running in complete isolation without some

dependency. Anything else it needs to work with

is usually going to be either in a different container, or

a different server, or across different networks.

The app itself needs to be able to retry

things, especially databases.

Every database connection technology I've worked with has

some sort of retry built in.

It just may not be on by default.

When you're building your apps, and you're using something

like, you know there's a Mongo database connector, and

there's Postgres, and MySQL and all the other database

technologies, typically have a Node connector

that you can use a driver, basically.

That usually has settings, at least on every one I've

looked at, where you can have it buffer connections

so that in case the backend goes down, it actually stores

them in memory and waits for the backend to come back up

eventually. You can have it retry over

a certain amount of time. You can have it wait for a

response for a certain amount of time in case, maybe, the

backend is slow or too busy to acknowledge connections.

So, there's lots of stuff there. Every technology is

different, so I'm not going to give you any examples here.

I just recommend you go and look at that, because you need

to build that in your app so that when you go to

production, this doesn't have a worse problem than what

you're going to experience here in local dev.

