Once your Compose projects get bigger, and you might even

be considering microservices,

you're going to end up with a lot of services.

That sort of magnifies a lot of the problems that you

traditionally would have with just a bunch of things

running that you're trying to all get working together for

development. There's lots of little issues

that have their own workarounds or ways to

go about solving them.

They may or may not be Compose specific, but I just want to

throw those in here so that you have the tools you need

to go check this stuff out when you need it.

You may not have all these problems today, but I wanted to

give you some resources to jump off with them and then show

you a quick example of using a local proxy.

One of the challenges of microservices is that assuming

you're using API or HTTP based endpoints,

is you end up with a lot of them.

So, you need to be able to manage those locally.

If you're just using Compose by default, Docker is

going to want to have a published port for every one of

these containers, which means you end up with a whole bunch

of ports that you have to manage across all the different

microservices you might have.

That's fine at first, but you may want a more optimized

design where you're using DNS names to access various

things, various microservices, instead of ports

for each one.

That's where a proxy will come into play.

That's really, I think nowadays, a

very standard part of your local Docker Compose

setup is putting in a container that's using a

reverse proxy to make it easier for all your

various endpoints, and parts of your app, to run behind

that. Then you can use nice things like friendly DNS names.

You don't have to have a bunch of random ports open.

It just scales better, I think, as you grow.

Standard options here are Nginx, HAProxy and Traefik.

In a minute, I'll show you a demo of using Nginx or

Traefik, two of, I think, the most popular choices for

doing this. It's really not that much work to set up.

Another problem is if you have CORS failures in local

development. That's cross origin issues where you

maybe have an app that's locked down a little bit to where

it can be accessed from, and another one of your

container's is failing at accessing it locally basically

because you've got the wrong setting setup there.

Instead of trying to go customize your app, you can

use a proxy for this as well.

I put some links in the resources for this lecture

that if you're into a CORS issue, just go check that stuff

out. If you don't have to worry about CORS yet, then don't

bother because it's a very specific problem, with a very

specific way of going about solving it.

If you're interested at all in developing locally with

HTTPS, that's also it's own set of problems

on how you go about getting certificates, and how do you

get easy trust in your browsers.

I've put a great resource link in

this lecture's resources to Let's Encrypt.

Let's Encrypt itself is not really ideal

for local development. It is really designed as a

production tool. But, this article that I'd like you to

read from Let's Encrypt, and if you're not aware of them

they're the big open source project that allows you

to get free real certificates for real websites.

They're fantastic. You should definitely look at it.

But, that is not really a tool for local

development with SSL or TLS certs.

They have a great article talking about the problems of it

and the best solution, which I adopt as well.

In that case, essentially the solution is creating

your own localhost certificates, on your local machine, and

then just connecting those into your proxy.

Before I get to a quick demo on this, one of the last

problems is just how to deal with DNS names locally.

Of course, if you're on a Mac or Linux machine, or on

Docker Desktop for Windows 10, you get to use localhost

if you're using that setup, and they sort of hide

the fact that Docker is running in the background.

That's great. If you're on another setup like Docker

Toolbox, or a remote server, or just simply your

own custom VM, you have to use an IP address for that

machine, probably if it's locally running in VirtualBox or

something. So, you might wonder what your options are

for DNS names locally.

Well, the first that I'm going to suggest here is

really the easiest because Chrome itself, out-of-the-box,

the Chrome browser, allows you to use something.localhost

for any name, for some website you have locally.

And that's great. Honestly, if you can get away with doing

that, and if you're only developing for stuff that's web

based in Chrome, and you're not using command line tools or

other browsers, then great.

You can get away with that.

But, it doesn't scale to other tools and other problem

areas. So, it's really just a Chrome-specific feature.

I tried it in Safari. I haven't tried it in every browser,

and I don't know if it works everywhere.

But, Chrome does support it. So, essentially you get that

out-of-the-box. You don't have to set up anything custom

for that to work. That would allow you to have website

a.localhost, website b.localhost,

and those would work in Chrome and automatically go to your

localhost IP address.

Then you could have a proxy running there, which I'll show

you in a minute, on routing those connections to

wherever they need go in your containers.

The next option here, which I've used in the past, is to

use a wildcard domain.

The jury is a little bit undecided on the security

risk with this and what you need to worry about in terms of

maybe someone that's hosting a domain name that you have

redirecting locally.

I feel like it's safe, especially if you're using

names that you can trust.

I use the vcap.me, which is owned by VMware.

It's a part of their VMware platform, so it's been around

for a probably a decade I think at this point.

It's pretty standard.

It's trusted, at least, that they're not going to go and

randomly cause that name to be redirected to other

websites.

You can also look at xip.io.

That's a slightly different solution where it allows you to

have a DNS name for each IP address

of any private subnet.

It's pretty interesting in case you have local servers.

These two solutions are just like the first one, really

about you using DNS names to access a bunch

of different local containers all running

on your localhost without having to edit your host file.

The last little option here is dnsmasq, which you will see

if you go searching around for this problem, you'll see

people suggesting dnsmasq.

That's an interesting little mini DNS server

that sits on either Mac or Linux.

It doesn't, at this point, run on Windows.

But on Mac and Linux, it will sit there and you can

customize it for any domains you want.

Like something.bret, or something.docker.

You could have that going to a local machine or really

wherever you want. This little thing then does

the DNS request and answers them for that, and then it

spins off the rest of them to whatever your normal DNS host

is. It's a little bit more of a setup process that

typically runs on the host.

So, you would have to set up some things.

It doesn't solve every problem.

So, I typically only use that when I absolutely have to.

Then, of course, your last resort is using the host file.

You might ask, well, that seems like the easiest choice.

Why don't I just do that?

Well, a couple of reasons. One, you have to have local

admin, and you have to be willing to go in and edit that

host file. It doesn't work with wildcard.

So, that means for every name, for every microservice that

you would want to have it's own DNS name, you'd have to add

a separate thing into the host file, and that just becomes

very tedious.

People have created scripts and tools over time to manually

edit your localhost file to do all of this, but it's still

not within the Docker workflow.

It's not something that can be automated with Docker

Compose. It just adds extra work, and it tends

to be my last option or preference.

If you go looking in the repo for sample

local proxy, you'll see two Compose examples

that are pretty simple that I just want to run you through

real quick, so you can play with those and see if they'll

work in your workflow.

They're designed so you can copy out the proxy

config for the service that will run a local proxy, and

then just paste that into your existing Docker Compose

files, and then start configuring your services so that

they'll all work behind this single proxy.

This by no way is a production-like

setup. These aren't designed for production the way that

I've configured them.

This is simply for local setups so that you can have a

single endpoint, maybe running on port 80, or whatever you

want. Then have a whole bunch different containers

running websites behind them on different names.

The first one here Nginx-proxy YAML

is using an Nginx variant and a couple

of tools built into a single container by a community

leader, jwilder, who has been around the Docker scene for

quite some time. This is probably the most popular local

proxy setup around, and it just works.

It has lots and lots of info on his GitHub

page. You can definitely go check all that out.

It hasn't changed a whole lot since he created

it around 2014, which at this point, was a long time

ago. You can see I've added a single service

here, Nginx proxy, and then it's sitting in front

of my services. So, let's say I have an app that's running

Nginx on one server, and then a ghost

Node.js server running on another container.

These are separate apps. If I didn't have the Nginx proxy

sitting in front of them, they'd have to be published on

their own ports. But, in this case, the proxy

sits in front of them. It's listening on my local port 80,

and it's mounted to my Docker socket.

So, it's reading information coming out of the Docker

Engine. Then it's able to

respond to anything coming at it at port 80

based on the DNS names, or the virtual hosts,

that I give each one of my apps.

So, if you had 20 different microservices, you would simply

add an environment variable for each that would be the name

that you'd want to use from your local browser,

or from cURL, or whatever you are using on your local

machine, to get into those apps, right.

If I spin this up, you would see that I would just be able

to go to either the dude.localhost or the

ghost.localhost, and I would see those

websites because the Nginx proxy is redirecting

the traffic, or reverse proxying it, from

that port that it's listening on.

This does support a lot of other things, like wildcards

and SSL, and you name it, there's a bunch of stuff in it,

and it's all on his GitHub repo that you can see

in the resources for this lecture.

The other way I'm going to show you here is with

Traefik.Traefik is a proxy that's exclusive

to just doing reverse proxy.

It's only goal in life is to be the best

container-based dynamic distributed computing

type of proxy.

It's got a lot of really interesting features because it

was based and born in the cloud world.

It was designed for containers and cloud native stuff.

So, it's got some really easy ways to get around using it.

You can see here that the setup is a little bit different,

but its purpose is the same.

You have the image that I've specified here.

I'm using the Docker volume to mount the sockets so it

can read information coming out of your Docker Engine.

I have it listening on port 80.

Then I basically am setting it up to know that it needs to

work with Docker.

Then it has its own web-based interface where you can

actually see stuff about what's going on, and that's pretty

cool because I can give it a name.

You'll see, in this example, that I'm giving it these

labels. The labels, rather than environment variables with

the Nginx one, the labels are how you tell this to work.

So, it's using container labels.

In this case, I'm telling it traefik.localhost.

That's what will work in Chrome.

But, if I don't have Chrome, or I can't use Chrome, or I

need to use something more suitable in my situation, then

I'm using the vcap wildcard domain from VMware

that I mentioned earlier, so I could also use this name,

which would redirect locally to my machine and bring up

that monitoring website.

The other things for my Nginx and my ghosts are very

similar to before.

You can see my two services that are sitting behind it.

The Nginx example, and the ghost example, and I've

got both names in there in case I want to use the localhost

in Chrome. Or, if I want to use the vcap me.

The comma there allows me to put multiple host names.

I'm sure that the Nginx proxy example has that feature as

well. I'm just showing you different ways of doing it.

Both of these work out-of-the-box.

You can cut and paste them, and play with them in your own

apps. If you're using more than two or three

websites, and you're growing, especially if you're building

microservices and you know you're going to keep adding new

API endpoints and stuff like that in different containers,

you're definitely going to have to build one of these two

types of solutions into your Compose files

so that you'll at least have a sane way of managing it all

on your local machine.

