This lecture is not specific to Node, but

it is important when you're talking about production

images. It's a lot of things that people leave out, or they

forget, when they first start getting started.

I just want to give you some tips so that you have the

knowledge to make sure that your images are truly

production ready.

The first thing I tend to harp on with teams

that I'm working with is documentation in these files.

They all support commenting.

So, do that.

Make sure you're commenting in your Dockerfile when things

aren't obvious.

When you start to get into multistage and you're getting

complex Dockerfiles that potentially are 100 lines

or larger, it's definitely worth commenting

on why stages exist.

Or maybe what stages that stage is coming from.

Because sometimes, it's not obvious to read through a

Dockerfile that has three, four or five or more stages

and figure out which stages depend on other ones.

We don't really have a great tool, yet, that will show us

exactly which stages are in which order so

that you know what's really going to happen when you build

an image. Make sure you put that in comments.

I wouldn't comment on easy things, like maybe just a

standard copy command. Those don't usually need any

explanation or a work directory.

But, run commands that are fairly complex, definitely

comment on them and why they do what they do.

Then add labels, which we'll get to in the next slide.

A little thing that I do for Node is that

when I'm building my production images, I add in the

npm config list command into

my runs right before I do an npm install.

This actually dumps out a little config

info on exactly how the Node in npm

is set up. That's good for my logging.

In case I ever have any problems, I can make sure that yes,

the Node version I expect is there.

Yes, the config options are set as I expect them to be,

and so on. Just throw that in your run lines.

It takes a second to run during the build, so it's sort of

additional bonus info.

I want to take just a second to update you on your

label knowledge.

Those are things that aren't required in Dockerfiles.

Often we forget about them.

Then when we get into production, it gets harder for us to

see what's going on because we're lacking the proper

metadata. If you've known about labels for a

while, there was a previous attempt at a label

spec years back.

But here in 2019, we're now following the OCI

standard for labeling.

So, there's a reference link in this video, and

I want to show you a file, in a second, that shows

the real labels that you might use.

The resource links, obviously, is going to give you lots of

detail about all the options.

Then you can make your own labels as well.

If you need some of those labels to be dynamic, then that's

when you use build arguments, or ARGs,

in your Dockerfiles that you would set during

the build commands that would then put that information

into your Dockerfile, set those labels and then that

becomes a permanent part of the image metadata.

In case you're using Docker Hub for some of your images,

or any other registry, those registries

may build images for you like Docker Hub does.

Docker Hub has its own set of environment variables that

you can put into build ARGs and then put

into labels.

Check out the reference links on this video for links

over to the Docker Hub documentation on what environment

variables they give you so that you can put more detail

into your labels and know what was going on at the time of

your builds. Let's jump real quick into a sample

directory I created for you called dockerfile labels.

Really, the only purpose I have for you here, on this

sample directory and Dockerfile, is to see some real-world

labels in action.

You'll see here, at the top, that I have set two build

arguments. The created date and then the source commit.

You'll see that I've actually set those to not set.

Those are the defaults. That way, if you don't set them

at Docker build command time, you will get

not set as their values.

That way, at least something is in there.

Then below, I have set some of the labels that I

think are the most common.

There's obviously lots of other options.

There's description, and other things that you can do, that

aren't in this particular example.

But, you'll see that they start with org.opencontainers.image. That

is the OCI standard that we're all now agreeing to.

The little parts after that, including authors, created,

revision,

those are all premade labels by them.

So, these are basically the standards that we can expect to

start seeing in images.

So, if you start putting this in your public images, as

well as in your team's private images, you will have

consistent standards. Then you can start relying on these

labels in production and in your CI systems.

So, I think that just kind of makes sense, right.

Once you jump into the next part down here at the bottom,

is the cool part, where you can label custom labels.

Of course, you can put anything you want in a label, but

we're trying to all agree on a standard.

That way, when you're sharing things, other people

understand where that's coming from.

In my example, if I had my own Node project here,

I would use maybe the domain name of the website,

or the organization, and you do it in reverse format, just

like you do with open containers.

I made my own label here, per their spec

of com.bretfisher.node version.

I'm pulling the Node version environment variable

from the previous image, or the from image

in my line 1.

That's something else you can do, obviously, with anything

in your Dockerfile. You can pull environment variables out

of images that it comes from.

So, that's what I'm doing here. That way, in my labels,

I have the exact Node version that I'm coming from.

If you want to get more information on labels, check out

the references that takes you to the GitHub link for the

spec. That spec may change, or be expanded, over time.

So, it might be slightly different once you look at it

based on what's going on in the industry.

Hopefully, we'll see a lot more of the images accepting

this standard. Because right now, I don't see a lot of

commitment from the community or the official images.

But, it would be really nice if we could all rely on these

labels and start using them as a consistent metadata

experience.

One, last little suggestion is to also

add comments to your Compose files.

The nice thing about YAML vs JSON is that YAML supports

inline comments, which is great.

I often put comments into my real-world Compose files

on a few key areas. One of those is anything

that I'm doing to override, or something that's quite

custom, I like to put in comments on volumes that aren't

obvious. That way, people know why the volumes are

being mapped there.

I also like to put in any time I override something, like a

command, the cmd, when I override that, I will comment

on it, if it's not completely obvious to someone.

If you start using templates, which I really suggest you

do, templates is in a previous lecture when you learned

about Compose files.

There was a lecture around templating at the very

top of your YAML and using YAML templating.

Up there, when you have that template, maybe just talk

about why that template exists, or one or two lines.

Then, if you use override files, which is a feature

of Docker Compose where you can have multiple files

chained, or an official one that's called docker

compose.override.yaml.

Those types of files, I like to put in there, comments at

the very top, why those files even exist.

Why are they separate from the standard file of just

Docker Compose YAML.

So, more documentation, the better.

Hopefully, these comments and documentation tips will

help your Docker experience be more awesome, help you

share more with others, which is all about DevOps.

It's all about sharing.

That's what we want to get across here is definitely

be sharing everything you can, whether it's open source

or in your team. Next up, we're going to talk about

testing.

