Building on the last few lectures, the next thing we

can add here is security scanning and

auditing. This comes in many forms, and there's lots of

tools out there that can do that.

Your first choice is where to put it.

You can put it in that test stage that we just built.

Ideally, that stage is not run by default, and it's really

something that you elect to choose as your target from the

command line. But, you could also make a new stage

based on the test stage.

Then you're going to have it running tests and

then if those succeed, assuming that your code is right

and it's going to work, then you're going to do auditing

and security scanning.

You probably don't need to do those if your code is not

correct, right. So, it seems to make sense to me to

do the testing first.

I think it's a little more flexible to just add that extra

stage in.

Some of these tools require that the image be built and

that you test them from the outside, maybe by running them

and doing stuff against them.

In those cases, of course, you're going to want to change

the cmd to do whatever you need to do and then run

that image, maybe from Docker Compose and spin

up the things you need in order to test it from the

outside. I've given you lots of links in the resources

here to go check out different security tools, scanning

tools, all that stuff.

Because if you're new to this in containers, it is a whole

new world of stuff out there.

I'm going to give you a quick little example here of one,

but it doesn't necessarily mean it's the best or my

favorite. Before we get started, a few things

to remember. One is that most of these tools

will fail by default.

So, if you're introducing it into your existing

applications and workflows, you probably want these to

silently fail, or to continue on failure,

so that they don't blow up your systems and automatically

stop the production workflows that you may already have.

You're going to want to take it easy at first.

Just have it reporting so that you can see what the stats

look like. Because a lot of these things, especially when

you're talking about CVE vulnerabilities, those

things are common to be in images, especially

in the base images that you might be depending on.

It's really hard to be perfect, and to be zero risk

and zero vulnerability.

It takes a little more methodical approach to decide

which things you're going to consider pass or fail.

Then as a part of this, consider just putting in a run npm

audit. That gets you some free stuff right out-of-the-box.

It's a great feature of npm that will simply make sure that

your dependency Node.js modules don't

have any known security vulnerabilities.

That is above and beyond what an image scanner might do

because not all image scanners, or code scanners, would be

specific to Node.js.

The nice thing is about npm audit is you get it right

out-of-the-box.

I definitely recommend that one first.

Then if you want any third-party security scanning tools,

add those in into this same stage at a

later line.

Let's go take a look at an example that I've given to you

in the multistage scanning directory.

In that directory, it's built on the last couple lectures,

so it's the same example demo app, and it's the same

multistage Dockerfile that we started with.

This time, we've added a another stage.

If we scroll down past the stage 1 and the stage 2 for

development, stage 3 for the copying of

source. That's that small little intermediate stage there.

Then we see the testing stage like we had in the previous

lecture. If we scroll down a little bit farther, we will

see a new stage that I've added for you that is just

about auditing and scanning.

In this case, I've done the npm audit like I recommended.

Do that first because it's usually very fast and it's an

easy one liner.

Next, I added in the Aqua Security

MicroScanner from Aqua Security.

MicroScanner is one of the many tools you can scan.

There are other ones out there that I've listed in the

resources that you can definitely check out all that stuff.

Try different ones.

They all are...it's kind of like antivirus scanners.

All the different scanners have various success and

failure ratios depending on what you're talking about,

and the unique CVE vulnerabilities.

So, you may eventually, if you're in a very

secure environment, you might want to use multiple scanners

or paid scanners.

But this is an open source one.

I've added some lines here.

You'll notice that the ARG is first, and that requires

me to then sign up with their scanner to get my own, unique

API key that I would then maybe store as an environment

variable in my CI system, or on my local box.

Then I would need to build with that argument.

We'll do that in a second.

Then I'm downloading the scanner into this image.

I'm changing it to be executable.

I'm then adding dependencies that I need

through the Alpine package manager.

Then I'm running the scanner against the local

code in that image.

You'll notice that right past that is just the standard

stage 6 that we use for production.

If I wanted to do all

testing and all scanning, I could just target

the audit stage, and it would do the testing

first and then the audit after that.

Here's a sample command on how I would build that.

I would build it. I'd call this maybe auditnode.

I would target the audit stage.

Then I would throw in a build argument to get that secret

key in there.

I'm using a local environment variable I've set in my

shell already called microscanner, so that's going to

pass that in as a build argument.

Then that build argument will pass it into the run

command for the MicroScanner.

All right. So, my build finished.

It probably took about a minute or so on my

machine.

Of course, the size of the project, and the amount of

scanners and things you want to run, will affect that

speed. You can see here that I've got at least

30 steps in this Dockerfile.

Now we're getting to real world Dockerfiles.

Once you get to complicated projects, be okay with the

fact that you're going to have 30 steps, right.

It will cache a lot of this stuff.

You can see here that I've got some output from the

MicroScanner and above that, we have some output

from the audit security report that says it found zero

vulnerabilities. That's good.

So this stuff really either works or it doesn't.

You have to kind of get to get used to the different things

that it will trip up, and you might have to make custom

config files to make sure that it fits your project and

your needs.

It's an easy add.

It doesn't require a whole lot of new learning and tooling,

especially if you using just the open source stuff and then

later, you can consider maybe buying one of the scanners

out there. Docker Enterprise has a scanner.

Lots of other security companies offer scanners as well.

Again, I've listed those in the resources, so go check that

stuff out.

