So, now you're going to do it in reverse, and you're going

to be creating the Dockerfile for that

rather than focusing on the Docker Compose file.

I've made the Docker Compose file a little friendly for you

just to get you started because that's not really the focus

of this assignment. Of course, you can always play around

with it, but it's essentially going to be the same Compose

file that you had before.

I've simplified it a little bit to focus you on the

Dockerfile itself. Because that's really what I want to

drive home with you on practicing this, a

Dockerfile and making it the full experience

for production, development, and test, all in one, that

you've learned throughout this section.

When I say make a production-grade Dockerfile,

I don't mean just make the Dockerfile for production.

I mean that that Dockerfile has taken everything into

account, which means dev, test, and production.

You're going to be doing a lot of things here including

adding multiple stages, focusing on

making sure you don't repeat yourself with multiple

commands and different stages that do the same thing.

Making sure that dev dependencies are only in development.

Making sure the production image is lean.

Adding the testing stuff.

There's so much to it that I've given you another readme

markdown in that directory that we're going to step through

now and just talk about a little bit.

We're in the ultimate-node-dockerfile directory.

I want to focus on the readme.

You're familiar with the app from the previous assignments,

and you'll even be a little familiar with the top of this

readme, which is the same idea.

You're the Node.js developer, in a project with multiple,

different apps, all related, and someone's given

you the Docker Compose file filled out, and they've also

given you the basic Dockerfile.

You're going to take that Dockerfile and turn it in to

all the fanciness, and all of the optimizations, that

you've learned throughout this section and throughout this

course. I've given you a list of the things

that this Dockerfile should include and do.

They're a little bit in order of this section, so

if you need to go back to videos, if you work from the top

down, they'll generally be in order of how this section

flowed. If you scroll down, the next thing

you'll notice is a bonus section. That's new.

I have not given a bonus section before necessarily

in an assignment. You could always have done extra stuff,

but there's so much opportunity here for practicing.

I'm really all about the practice.

Once you get done with this assignment, if you have the

time, consider doing the bonus material.

The next video will be the assignment

answer, just like normal, as I walk through the assignment.

But, there's a second video after that and that

lecture video will be just for the bonus stuff.

So, if you don't have the time, or maybe you want to skip

it, you can skip the bonus lecture.

But, I'm all about practicing things over and over again

because we don't all just learn everything the first time

we do it. We often need to do it multiple times, at least,

in order to get better at remembering it.

A lot of the bonus stuff is taken from previous sections

in the course.

So, it's going to cause your memory to have to go back

a few videos, possibly even dozens of videos back, to the

earlier sections of the course, to talk about Dockerfile

best practices, to talk about multistage,

talk about BuildKit, and all the other things that you

learned earlier on in the course.

Because you can implement that stuff here to make

this experience, and this Dockerfile, better.

Finally, I've given you some outcomes here just for

the main section, not so much for the bonus section, but

for the main assignment, I've given you some

ways to verify that your assignment

worked, and it did what you expect.

Not all the things you do in the assignment are going to

always be immediately obvious.

Sometimes things won't go right.

Usually, if you can run your tests,

and you can run it and play with it in the actual browser,

usually simple apps like this, you'll know whether or not

you did it right.

Another few things you'll do there include validating

the image sizes, because you'll expect that your production

image is smaller than your development images,

or your test images, which have all those extra

dependencies in them.

I've thrown a few other things in there that you can run as

well. Include functional tests and ensuring that

you don't include things like the test files themselves in

your production images, which we didn't necessarily show

exactly how to do in this section.

But, I bet you can figure it out.

As always, I hope you'll try this

assignment for a little bit on your own.

It's ok if it takes you multiple tries and a significant

amount of time, meaning more than a few minutes.

It might even take you an hour or two, and that's totally

fine. The most important part is your learning how

these things can be created.

Because it's not just a boilerplate standard thing every

time. Sometimes you've got to get creative.

Got to try different methods to get things to work properly

together. And most importantly, I hope you have fun and

I'll see you in the assignment answer.

