Welcome to the assignment answer for the

Ultimate Node Dockerfile.

Hopefully, you've spent a significant amount of time, more

than a few minutes, going through the assignment.

There's a lot to it, so I don't expect your

Dockerfile to look like mine.

They might even get to the same, exact result and not

be the same thing.

That's the thing that happens when we all start getting

more complicated in our designs as they get a little bit

more opinionated. Maybe you like something that I don't

prefer. So, there's not necessarily a black and white.

That's why I wanted the outcomes at the bottom of the

readme file, that you've hopefully gone through that.

That is important because those outcomes

don't necessarily reflect, line by line, what needs to be

in this Dockerfile, right. That's really just, does it

work the way you'd expect?

So, I'm going to go through it, and do it like you would

do it, and we'll have some fun.

All right. I am in the directory, the ultimate node

dockerfile directory.

Now I'm in the readme, and I'm just going to

go through each line.

The first one here, on the finished

Dockerfile, is creating a multistage Dockerfile

that supports specific images for production, testing and

development. If I open up that

Dockerfile, the one that I've given you,

has...it's very simple.

It's a single stage Dockerfile.

The first thing I notice is that it's saying that these

apt-get commands are really only needed for dev and

test. I don't need them in a production

image. So, I definitely know that I need three, different

stages, at least, because I need a production,

a development and a test.

I also need to move these out of this

first image. Like you've seen several times

whenever I've shown the multistage examples, there's

typically a base stage where you do

something that's going to be in every other stage.

So, I end up just calling it base.

It doesn't always have the source code in it.

It might just have dependencies. You know, something like

npm installs or apt-gets, stuff like that.

Those are often the things that take the longest when

you're building an image, other than maybe some of the

testing stuff. So, I usually want that as early on

as I can in a base image, and then I'll refer to that base

image, or pull from that base image for later

images. The first thing I want to do is, when

I'm going to do multiple stages, is

I'm going to think about it in a way where I'm just

going to outline it.

I'll just do a from base as.

So, dev, because I'm going to have a dev image.

Then a little later, I'm going to have

from dev as test.

The reason that I know, right away, that

it's probably going to have a test based on dev is

that I know that my dev dependencies, that all those tools

are going to be needed when I do testing. To

make it more efficient, I'll just have those hopefully be

able to pull from each other.

So, that dev will depend on base, and it'll just go from

the first, to the second, to the third kind of image

building scenario. You know, when you're creating these,

you have an idea in your head how many stages

you might need. But then once you get really into it, you

might realize you need more stages.

You might realize that you need to reoptimize your stages

because there's too much stuff going on.

So, I tend to find that whatever I thought

I was going to have at the beginning of this is not exactly

what I end up with at the end to get it to work.

Then I want to do something that's...call it

from base as prod.

Just because I've done Node multistage

before, and I know that I typically want my prod images

to be so lean, and not have any of the dev stuff

in them, or any of the test stuff in them.

If you've been around a while, you know that you can

actually do some npm uninstalls, where you can tell

it to remove dev dependencies.

But, I'm not so much a fan of that because

I don't feel like that's guaranteeing me that my production

image is exactly like I want.

Basically, there's some magic that npm will do that will

get rid of dev dependencies, and it's probably just

removing a bunch of files.

One is that that doesn't necessarily

mean that my image will be smaller, because

it would have to happen in some other image, right.

It can't happen in the prod image.

Because the prod image can't have anything in it

at all. Otherwise, those layers will just bulk up

the image. But, that all goes back to the way that images

work. If you have a previous layer of the same image

that has a bunch of files in it and then you remove them,

they're still in the image. They're just not going to show

up when you run it, but they're still taking up space,

making it bigger.

So, one of the scenarios is I don't want to use that

npm remove dev dependencies command because it's

kind of tricky on where I put it, in which stage, in order

to make sure that those aren't there in the production

image at all. So, you'll see me go through that, and

I'll skip that option when I'm working in Docker.

Here up at the top, I'm going to have to rename my first

stage as base.

That tends to be my standard.

That's not necessarily anyone else's standard.

I don't want to put these comments in here.

I want to keep this as lean as possible just for the

ease of you looking at the screen.

Then, the next thing I want to do is put this

dependency install stuff down here in the dev image only.

Because I know that it's not needed in production according

to that documentation.

I'm going to clean up some spaces here, just so it's easier

for us to move around.

Save that for now.

I've got three stages not really doing a whole lot there

yet.

Dev dependencies should not exist in production image.

So, I know that now I'm going to need two, different npm

install commands.

The first one was already up here.

All right. Really, in order

to control npm install here, I need an

env. I need that to be

node env=production.

Then, I can come down here to my

dev image and paste that and change it to development.

Then I can probably copy this npm install command

and also put that down here

under development.

Now, I'd like to be more literal, so I

also put in

--only like

that. Then I'll do the same thing up here

at the top, I'll do a --only.

So,

it's a little clearer to someone reading it.

That way, they don't have to go up to find the env line to

see what's going to be installed later.

They see that, oh, npm install will only install

production.

So, I kind of do both.

You could get away with using one or the other.

At some point, you're going to need a node env in there

because other things in Node will act differently based on

the node env, not just npm install.

Here, I just like to put it in so that it's easier to read,

and I can be doubly sure that it's definitely going only

install the production stuff.

That's enough, I believe, to qualify

for that line.

The next line, use npm ci to install production

dependencies. Here, I want to change

this from npm install to npm ci.

Then, that means this production doesn't work.

It doesn't need that because it will only install

production dependencies anyway.

All right. Use scenario one for setting up Node modules,

the simple versions. If you remember back earlier in the

course, that just means that we're going to put everything

in the same app directory. We're not going to try to split

out the Node modules and put it higher in the file path.

So, I won't do that.

Set node env properly for dev and prod.

Done.

The dev stage should run nodemon from dev dependencies,

either by updating the path or hard coding the path in

nodemon. Cool.

So, I've already

got the env path here, so I think I'm good to go on the

path. It actually puts the Node

module's bin in there, which will have the nodemon for me.

That means down here under

dev, I just need to do a cmd

and change...just

change it to be like that, where it's running nodemon

instead of Node.

Edit Docker Compose to target the dev stage.

I have called this stage dev, so that

way, in my Docker Compose to tell it to run

that stage.

Target dev. Add labels from OCI standard values are up to

you to all the images.

While I certainly don't memorize all these, and I certainly

don't want to type them all out. So, I'm going to go back

to the command line and back up a directory,

and go to the label examples from the previous

lecture that talked about labels.

If I see in there, they're actually all in the Dockerfile

there. So, I could open

that up in Visual Studio Code.

Or, if you have cat available, just cat the

Dockerfile.

Copy and paste those in.

I may not use them all.

But, I'll put them up here at the top. One of the

requirements was all these labels would be in every one of

them, which means I had to put them all the way at the top.

I do like to put them at the very beginning so that people

can see it. I'm not going to use created or revision here.

I don't have a URL or source, so

I can't really use them all.

But, I can use some of these.

Yeah. Something like that.

Doesn't really matter. I've got those in there.

It will pull the Node version from the official Node image

that I'm using, Node 8 slim.

Add npm config list output before running the npm install.

In my base and in my dev

images, where I have both these npm install commands...Oh,

look at that.

I don't have my npm install down here.

So, I do need to do a run npm install.

Oh, look at that. I've already made a mistake where my test

is where I've got this Node env

development stuff, and not the dev image itself.

So, I'm going to fix that before I go any further.

You're probably wondering why that was the

case, and it shouldn't be that way.

I should be putting all this in the dev image, and

then leaving the test image blank from not, because I'm not

really sure what the requirements are for that.

All right. That's a little better.

Now, according to that readme, I need to add

a run line in for npm config

list. Have

that line run on both images

right before it does npm install.

The reason I'm putting in this as multiple

run lines, because technically, you could combine

these two run lines together.

It would maybe save you like a hundred milliseconds

on the build so that it doesn't have to stop and recreate a

new container for the next line.

But, when I'm building images,

especially up front, when I'm just building it and I'm

writing stuff down, I don't even know if it works yet.

I always break out my run lines as much as I can, where I

think they might have a problem, or might fail, because

it's easier to troubleshoot and it's faster to rebuild when

each one of them is on their own line.

So, I'll worry about efficiency later, and maybe

I'll combine these on my own when I just want to make

this thing as fast as possible.

I could possibly combine all these run

lines together once I know they're working really well.

For me, I tend to keep them separate as long

as there's no serious delay or it's not going to cause

a file bloat issue.

You know the reason you do the apt-get update and the

apt-get install all in one line is so

that you get the right of current

updates. So, if you put those in separate run lines,

there's actually some potential problems you could have

there. The same goes with the npm install and the cache

clean. The cache clean won't really save you any space.

But, I always make sure that's there, right.

This hasn't really gained anything if I combine this run

line here. I'm just going to leave it separate for easier

troubleshooting. All right.

Create a test stage that runs npm audit.

All right. I can do that.

I've already got the test stage, because I was going to

have a dev test prod.

Then I can just do a run npm audit.

Really? Should work.

Test directory should only exist in test image.

Interesting. So, this one can be a little tricky.

It may not be something that we fully fleshed out in a

previous lecture.

Sometimes you want to clean up some stuff before you put it

into production.

But, that stuff is included on the host.

So, you can't put it in a Docker ignore because it has

to be in at least one of the images.

It just can't be in all of the images.

That means you need possibly some images

where it's only doing cleanup for you.

Remember, you can't just copy stuff in, then clean it up in

the same production image that you're going to ship.

Because then you end up with image bloat where that stuff

is sort of hidden in an old layer, and it didn't really

get removed from the image. It's just not going to show up

in the final layer.

So, in this case, I'm going to need

probably some sort of intermediate

image where I do a remove command

at the command line just to delete the files, and then I

copy the final into the production.

That way, I never have those unnecessary

files in the production image, and it's as small as

possible.

I know that my copy command is all the way to top here.

That's not really ideal.

It never really should be like that in a multistage image,

because the copy command will bust everything

else. As soon as I change a single file, every line below

this is going to have to be rebuilt unless you're using

BuildKit. BuildKit gets a little bit smarter, but in the

default building, it's going to require a lot of work.

So, I'm going to move that down as much as I can.

We know we don't need it in the base.

We just need that package JSON in there so that we can do

the npm installs.

We don't necessarily need it in dev, like I covered before.

Because in dev, I am going to bind mount, so I don't even

need the source code in my image because it will be ignored

when I do the bind mount.

I'm going to try to put it here.

I might be able to put it later.

I'm not really sure yet.

So, once my test image has done the npm

audit, and presumably some other test commands we

might have to add in later, I'm going to need to

remove those files.

I don't necessarily want to do them in a test image,

though, because I'm going to need them throughout the

image, and I don't want to end that image with the remove

command, because it'll screw up that image.

That image won't run properly in CI if doesn't have the

test stuff. So, I'm going to have to create some other

image here before I get to the production image.

I'm

going to have to pull it from the test and I want

to call it pre prod, I guess.

The way this is going to work is I'll do a run command in

here to remove the

files I need. So, let's do a

test, right.

That's what it said in the readme to remove that.

Then over here, I'm going to need to copy that source

code into the production image. I'm going to do a copy, but

I'm going to have to do a from and tell it what

stage.

So, we're going to do it from pre prod.

Then

I need to give it full paths.

What I've noticed is when I'm doing the copy command

with the from, doesn't necessarily obey my working

directory. So, I want to be more literal here and say app

app.

The other thing I know just from experience, really,

and doing this wrong the first couple of hundred times,

is that when I do it this way,

when I'm copying my source code out of a development

or testing situation, into my production image.

What I don't want in Node is to also copy that Node

modules, with all the unnecessary Node modules

from dev and test.

I have to remove that as well.

Running this here means that when I copy

this here, it will merge essentially what's already

in that base image, which includes the production Node

modules from base.

Then it's going to copy all the source code, but not the

test directory, and not the Node modules from my

dev/test image.

This right here is...it

could be considered an intermediate layer.

It's never used as its own

image to run. It's just there to help me clean up

some stuff before I copy it to a new image that is

then production.

Healthchecks should be added for production image.

That's a nice thing that I can add down here at the very

bottom.

cmd and cURL is in the image.

That is enough for now. I probably could make it fancier

and do the exit 1,

but really, it's just there as a basic

test just to validate that I have a container working.

Next, prevent repeating costly commands like npm

installs or apt-gets. I think I've done that pretty well.

I don't have any repeating commands here that are

unnecessary.

No unnecessary npm installs.

No unnecessary copy commands because I'm only copying in

once with the dot dot.

Then, I'm doing a little removal.

Only copy source code once.

Then copy from to get into other stages.

Well, I did that.

Maybe because I wrote these rules, I knew them before I

read them. All right.

Now what I'm going to do is we're going to skip bonus.

That's going to be in the next lecture.

I'm going to go straight to the outcomes.

I'm going to run through these different

commands and things that we need to do to make sure that

everything is as I would expect, and it builds and runs

as it should.

The first one on the list is build all stages as their own

tag. Ultimate node test should be bigger

than ultimate node prod.

All right. So, I'm going to call it ultimate node.

Let me get

back in the ultimate directory.

All right. So, let's do a docker build here.

We're going to tag it ultimate node.

We're going to

start with dev. I'm just going to do dev and then the test

image is in the prod, because that's sort of the flow

they're going to be in anyways. Target dev. OK.

It has successfully built the dev image, so I'm going to

just hit the up arrow and do this for

test. So, I'll change the target and I will change

the tag to test.

Now that I've done it for test, I'm going to do it for prod

as well.

Then, I'll do a docker image ls, and look at the three

outputs just to see the sizes.

The goal here, really, is that your prod image is the

smallest size.

So, your dev and your test will probably be pretty close

together because they'll have the same stuff except for the

source code, which will be in the test image,

but not in the dev image.

So, if you have lots of source code, then the test would be

the biggest one. Typically, that's what I expected.

Test has all the stuff it needs.

Basically, everything you could possibly want for testing

and production is going to be the smallest that I would

expect. These are working as I would hope.

All builds should finish. Well, definitely that one.

So,the first two are finished.

Run dev test prod images and ensure they can start as

expected. All right. So, these are just one-off

docker runs. So, I can do a docker run.

Because I ran this a while ago and knew

that it wouldn't control c, because this app is not aware

of Tini and doesn't capture signals, I'm going

to do an init here just to save me some time.

We called it ultimate node.

I'll

do the test one.

And it started. Now, it's going to wait for DB because I

didn't use Docker Compose, and that's normal.

I can control c out of that, and then

do the same thing for prod, which should not

be using nodemon.

All right. That looks good.

Then I could do a docker compose up

and see if everything works here.

All right. Once I see connected to DB, then

I can jump over to my browser.

Do the localhost 5000, or whatever

Node your Docker is running on and then

the result is 5001.

I can click on dogs and see dogs.

And click on cats and see cats.

All right. We're good to go there.

I've now done the first four, it looks like.

Build all stages. All builds should finish.

Run dev test prod images.

Docker compose up should work, and you can vote and see

results. Now, it says ensure prod images

don't have unnecessary files by running docker run

it. Okay. So, what I'm doing here is I'm

going to run an image, the production image,

manually and get a bash shell in it.

Then, I can dig

around. If you're familiar with

tools in Docker, there's a tool that's pretty cool called

Dive, D I V E.

So, check that tool out if you're interested

in a visual understanding of diving into

what is in an image.

This tool, Dive, does exactly that.

And it's a pretty good one. But I'm not going to show that

off. I'm really just going to do a simple docker run into

the bash, and then do a couple of ls's.

So docker run -it ultimate node prod

and then bash will give me a shell inside one of those

containers. I can do an ls

real quick.

I can see that I don't have

the test directory in here, which is a good sign.

Then if I do an ls of node modules/.bin.

Good. So, I don't see nodemon in there.

Part of the problem with a lot of these is that

once you get into production, your image

gets complicated enough that it's easy to accidentally put

stuff in the production image because your different build

stages are out of order, or maybe you don't have the

commands just quite right.

So, this is a really easy way to just dig around the

production image to figure out what's in here and what

isn't. Then after docker compose up, run

the docker compose exec result.

Test test to perform a functional test

across test containers.

All right. I'm just going to copy this command

out and paste it in.

So, I need to do a docker compose up first.

I'll do a -d so it runs in the background.

Then if I do a docker compose exec on the result service,

and then run the test command,

it'll take a minute for it to validate the tests.

If you go digging around, then it's

a shell script that's running from

the result against the vote and changing votes,

and then seeing if they show up in the result.

All right test passed. Great.

That's really it for this assignment.

For the bonus stuff, see the next lecture where I'll dig a

little bit more into the more advanced

stuff of this

assignment. Thanks for watching.

