The rest of this section is on Docker Compose.

But, I want to make sure you have the latest tools that

you're going to need for this course.

That's not very many tools, really.

You're probably already using Node.js locally, so

I won't talk too much about that.

You're just going to use whatever Node version you prefer.

A lot of this course is using Node in a container, so we'll

worry about that later.

Let's focus on the Docker tools.

The two tools you'll need will be Docker, the engine in

command line that we all think of as Docker

itself. And then, Docker Compose, the separate binary

that you'll use throughout this course.

If you're on Mac or Windows 10, you'll

be using Docker Desktop hopefully.

That's the preferred option.

It's the thing that Docker spends all their time on

nowadays, and they keep adding features and improving

performance. If you're on an older version of Windows,

or Windows 10 Home, none of those have Hyper-V.

That's what's required in order to use Docker Desktop.

So, on those versions, you'll look up Docker

Toolbox. I recommend you get that from the

GitHub download link that I provide in the resources,

not from Docker's documentation, because that one can be a

little bit old. You definitely want the latest releases.

We'll get to versions in a minute.

Docker Toolbox will work with all the stuff here.

It just won't have all the latest and greatest Docker

features that Desktop might have.

If you're on a Linux distribution for your main desktop,

or if you're interested in installing on a server,

then you're going to just use your package manager.

But be careful, because the defaults in almost every

package manager I've seen are going to give you old,

or outdated, or even wrong Docker binaries.

So, you're going to want to go to docs.docker.com,

look up your distribution that you're currently using, and

install via their preferred format.

That'll make sure that you have the latest packages, from

the latest repositories, of all those tools.

Now, let's cover Docker Compose real quick, because it's

technically a separate binary, written in Python, versus

Docker, which is written in Go.

Docker Compose comes with Docker Desktop and the Toolbox.

But, if you're on Linux, you're going to need to download

it separately. You can go and download it from GitHub, but

I don't recommend doing that. I think it's actually better

to use pip, the python installer.

So, use pip install docker-compose, like I show

here. That will ensure you get the latest version.

You can also use that to update it later on.

Lastly, let's just make sure that you have the latest

version. So, run these two commands from your command line.

Get your Docker version for the client and the engine.

That's the two parts of Docker.

And then the Docker Compose version.

These are the versions that I built this course for.

These are the latest versions as of the end of 2018, back

when I started planning this stuff.

Those are the versions that have all the new features that

you will use throughout this course.

It's more important that you have the latest Docker Engine.

But, Docker Compose is getting updated, as well, for a lot

of the new features that you'll learn in this course.

So, I would say just do the best you can to get the latest.

Anything newer than mine will be fine because Docker works

really hard on backwards compatibility.

So, I rarely see an issue with newer versions breaking

anything in my courses.

So, just get the latest stuff, and let's get

into Docker Compose.