In the last lecture, we talked about the basics for

orchestration and what you need to really be focused on.

The three phases of a lifetime of a container, the

startup, the running and then the shutdown.

I just want to give you an example of what a Swarm stack

might look like. That's similar to a Compose file.

If you check out the sample swarm directory here,

we're going to go through basically some of the things you

might see in that file that's a little bit different than

what you've seen throughout this course.

Most of the things you put in a Compose file are compatible

with a stack. In fact, Docker has designed it this way so

that when you're using Compose locally, that same file

can just be set to Version 3.

Version 3.7 is the latest as of this recording.

Then you can add some new features to it.

The nice thing is is that Swarm will ignore anything that

doesn't work. Then, if you use that same file back in

Docker Compose, Docker Compose will ignore it.

So, they have their own concerns.

For instance, Swarm doesn't build.

Compose doesn't deploy.

Those are concerns, different, you know, for the two tools.

Let's go check out that file real quick and just see a

couple of examples of what you might use in a Node.js

Swarm app.

In the sample swarm directory, you'll see one file in

there, and it's similar to the voting app stack that we

had before. But, I've changed it to a Version 3 and added

some things to the result app that are more production

specific.

Let's take a look. You'll notice that I have changed the

version to 3.7 in Swarm.

You'll take your Compose file and the first thing you'll

want to do is change it to at least Version 3.0.

That was the very first version of the Compose file format

that works in Swarm stacks.

You'll notice some things that I use up at the top that I

mentioned in an earlier lecture around templating and

getting more out your Compose files.

I have that templating here to set the logging for all

the services to a limited size of 1MB.

That's a common thing when you're in production if you

don't have a centralized logging system, is to limit logs

from filling up your hard drives.

You'll notice that I've added the Traefik app from earlier

so that we have a proxy in front of our result app, as

well as the other ones that are web based, like vote.

I've added that in here.

It's the same example we saw before.

I'm just saying that maybe if you're going to be using

something like Swarm, which doesn't have a built-in ingress

HTTP sort of router

like Kubernetes does, you're going to need something in

there, and Traefik might be what you would choose.

So, I've thrown that in.

We're at the result app part, which is where I wanted to

focus your attention because this is where you would see

some of the specific things related to Node.

We are using, from the previous lecture, the example app

of result that I added with the Stoppable

option, where I did a couple of things like healthchecks,

and readiness, and added Stoppable in to control connection

shutdown.

I have a specific version of that image, which is just

the code from the previous lecture.

You'll notice the first, new thing here is a stop grace

period. That is related to how long Docker

will wait, by default 10 seconds, for

an app to shut down. In this case, I'm giving it five

minutes. This is so that Stoppable can shut down

any client connections. If I have a lot of connections to

an app, it may take some time, so I want to let Docker

give it plenty of time to properly shut down those

connections before it terminates, or

kills, the application outright.

Your app is going to be different, so you definitely want

to test how long it typically takes on your load, and then

give a little bit more time for Docker before it kills your

app. Ultimately, you really want to be on the safe

side with this particular setting because the worst case,

if you set it too short, is that it will kill client

connections before they're ready to be killed.

If you set it too long, that just means that it might take

longer to restart than normal if

it's going to be killed. In other words, it's never

going to hit this limit unless it's already not shutting

down fast enough, so it's perfectly fine to make it a large

value. The deploy section is new.

If you haven't been using Docker Compose locally, the

deploy section is specific to Swarm.

It has got replicas of two, so we're running

two containers here, whether they're on a single host or

multi host, doesn't really matter.

We're adding some labels just to make it easier to find

or filter. Then we have this update config.

You heard me talk about updates before and how important

those are to get right. In this case, I'm saying only

update one at a time, which happens to be the default.

But, I'm just reiterating the default here.

With failure action, this allows me to control how I roll

back, if there's a problem with an update.

If I'm rolling out a new version of my image and there's

any sort of hiccups, maybe the healthcheck never passes, or

maybe something else is a problem. It will then roll back,

per this setting, to the previous version.

That's what you usually want. The default is pause.

Typically in a production setting, I just want to get back

to a working version. I don't want to troubleshoot in

production. I'll probably set pause on my dev and test

machines. If you're interested more in how this works with

Swarm, go check out my other Swarm courses and information

on my website. Order start first means that it will start

the new container before it gets rid of the old one.

That is not the default. That is something that you need to

usually set if you have only one container,

and you want to make sure that it never takes everything

down all at once, right. If you only have one, in this

case, of course, I have two, so, I technically didn't need

to set this. But, I always like preferring this ay

so that it tries to start the new one first before even

messes with my existing ones.

That way, if the new one doesn't work right,

it just kills that one. It doesn't mess with the old ones

ever. Then we had those labels that we've seen before for

Traefik. That's really it.

There is a ton of other stuff for controlling rolling

updates, and shutdown and stuff like that.

But, that's really more specific to Swarm itself and not so

much Node.js. If you're wondering where the healthcheck is,

by the way, the healthcheck was specified in the Dockerfile

in that particular image, so I don't need to specify it

here again. Hopefully, that helps.

You understand a little bit of what you would use to deploy

this with Swarm.

Next up, we'll talk about doing this and Kubernetes.

