When we talk about Compose, there's two parts to that

puzzle. There is the Docker Compose command line,

and then there is the Compose file format.

A lot of times when I'm going back and forth between them,

I'll say the Compose CLI for the command line, and

I'll say Compose file for the file format.

Because these can be used separate and together to do

different things.

The Compose CLI is largely

focused around developer workflows.

That is, you working on your local machine, or maybe on

a server, but you're actually developing the software,

and testing it, creating some automation for your

test maybe. But, it's not really designed for production.

We'll talk more about that throughout this section and

course.

The CLI talks to the Docker daemon, so it's a

replacement in a lot of cases.

In fact, in my day-to-day work, it is the

command line tool I use all day.

It's rare that I use the Docker binary

to talk to the engine.

When you think of the Docker Compose command line, just

think of it as an alternative to the Docker CLI.

It's easier to use when you have multiple,

complex container deployments, you know, when you've got a

bunch of settings. In fact, if you just look at this

example command, this would be me running a typical

Node developer environment of a single container.

You can already see lots of complexity in here, right.

We've got ports we need to open.

We've got volumes we need to mount.

We have environment settings we need to build before

we actually deploy the container.

This is a lot of stuff, right.

So most people, if they didn't have Compose, would be

creating shell scripts in order to wrap this complexity

up, because we don't want have to type this every day,

right. So, this Compose command

line was largely spun out of the idea of let's not create

more scripts to solve this problem.

Let's create a tool that automates this workflow in a more

declarative way.

I'm always going to recommend you use the Docker CLI

locally for development instead of the regular

Docker command line, and we'll only use the Docker command

line when there's maybe not a Compose command line

equivalent. Lastly, ideally,

you're not using the Docker Compose command line in

production on servers.

You might use it for testing on servers.

But really, when you go production, in a lot of cases,

you're going to want multiple servers for some redundancy.

That's where orchestrators do well, such as

Swarm or Kubernetes.

In fact, later in the section, there's a lecture on

the benefits of considering something like Swarm, instead

of using Docker Compose, even when you're just doing one

server.