Before we get to the command line stuff,

we need to understand the Compose file format.

Let's go over a few things and look at an example.

First is that what we're talking about here is a Compose

file format. It's written in YAML that we'll talk about the standard of that

in a second. This is really specific to Compose

and other Dockor tools like Docker Swarm,

Docker Enterprise Edition.

Those tools all support this Compose file format,

but it may look similar to other things like Kubernetes

service definitions, and stuff like that,

and it's not. It's totally a unique thing to Compose.

It may look similar to other things.

Second, the Compose file format is really designed

to describe one or more containers

and all the different settings you might set for running that container.

In Compose, it's called a service.

It's called the service because you can run multiple containers,

or replicas,

under that same service. So,

in case you want to run multiple web apps of the same

image, you can just create multiple replicas.

Those are underneath what's called a service.

You'll see that in a minute. Compose is good for many other things,

including documenting your networks that you want to create,

putting in the volumes, and all the other settings that revolve around

this container, or set of containers,

that you want to create. As we'll see throughout this course,

there are lots of other things that this Compose YAML can do.

As we tend to get more advanced later on,

we'll see things like using multiple YAML

files and combining them together to get an output

using templates known as YAML templating,

and environment variables,

and more. Just you know,

we'll be using docker-compose.yml

as the standard, or the default really,

for our Compose files. But, you can use any name you want.

You can just specify it manually during your Docker Compose

commands, but it's way easier to just use a default out-of-the-box

and stick with that until you need more advanced setups

where we create multiple types of Compose files.

Your Compose files are going to be made using the YAML specification,

which stands for YAML Ain't Markup Language,

which is kind of silly.

It's actually a recursive acronym,

which means that it has its own acronym name in the

acronym itself.

People have said it used to stand for Yet Another Markup Language

but supposedly that was either never the case,

or changed at some point. Anyway,

it doesn't really matter. We call it YAML.

It's used with Docker command lines for Swarm

and Kubernetes. It's used with Kubernetes itself

and allow the Kubernetes tools.

It's used by Amazon

and just so many tools in the industry as a data

serialization language.

That really just means that it's a way for us to describe data

in simple values,

that is then serialized and sent on to some other system where

it's processed. Really,

YAML is the means to an end.

It's the way we describe something

and get it to the format that the computer can read it.

The nice thing about YAML, unlike some other formats like

XML, or SOAP,

or even JSON, is that YAML is easy for humans to

read.

That's one of its primary goals.

You'll notice that right away as we start to use it.

The two big concepts here I want to make sure you understand are

the colon and the dash.

So any time you see a colon,

that indicates a key value pair.

Sometimes that value may be other key value pairs

or even a subset of information below it.

We don't use tabs for indentation. We use spaces.

I mostly will be using two spaces because I think

that's just shorter and a little easier to read,

but you may see me use four at times.

It really doesn't matter. Certain files are in four,

and certain are in two. There's no sort of set industry standard.

Anytime you see a list,

and a list really is a single value,

there's no key value.

It's just list of values,

you'll see us using a dash.

If you open up the entire repository

and then go into the sample01 directory,

you'll see a really basic example of a node.js

app with a Compose file

and a Dockerfile. In most cases,

you're going to need that Dockerfile obviously,

but for now I want to just focus on the Compose file,

which we have set at version 2.0.

In a minute, I'll explain the difference between 2

and 3. You'll see here that we have one service,

and we can call it whatever we want.

Some people might call it node.

I would call it web, if it's a web frontend.

Or API, if it's a Web API.

Doesn't really matter.

That's how you'll be referring to this container,

or set of containers, when you're using a Docker Compose command line.

You'll notice that we have a great example on line 1

of a key value,

with the colon,

and then you'll see under here,

we have key values that are a

subset of other keys.

Technically, all of this is part of the value

for services,

and we create a hierarchy here

with our tabs.

Under services, you can have many services.

Again, when you think of a service,

you think one or more containers based on a single image.

That's really what a service is.

We're specifing the image we want it to make when we build

this directory. That's what the dot inside the build means is,

build an image from this directory,

is sort of shorthand for the current working directory.

Then the ports is a list,

because we can have many ports exposed.

Rather than there being a key

and value for each one,

we just make it a list of entries that are then processed

by the Docker Engine.

Lastly, real quick, before we move on to the command line stuff,

let's talk about the versions of Compose files.

And there's a little bit of confusion in the industry.

I'm actually working with the Docker team,

right now, while this course is being built,

to kind of help clear this up.

There's Version 2 and there's Version 3 of the Compose file.

Most common knowledge believes that the Version 3

is the complete replacement for Version 2,

and that we should all be using Version 3 from now on.

That's not really true.

I'm here to tell you that if you're just focusing on Docker Compose

for local dev and test,

and you're not planning on using either the Swarm

orchestrator on a server

or using the Docker Enterprise Edition

with a Kubernetes cluster,

then there's no reason to use the V3.

Because really, the V3 is focused on multi-node server

orchestration features,

such as secrets and configs,

and deploying to an orchestrator type of concepts.

Version 2 was really focused on the single node using

the node you're on

with a development workflow.

It has some unique features that are not found in V3 that

we'll talk about later in this course.

For most cases, when we start out through this course,

you'll see me focusing on V2

and then whenever we get to any V3 stuff,

I'll specifically call out why we're doing that.

