All right.

Let's get a quick recap and some actual advice

on how you're going to do this in the real world now that

you've learned all the ins and outs.

The key to this YAML is

that you're going to start using kubectl apply everywhere.

As you get better at this stuff, kubectl apply

becomes your most popular command.

As you start to be able to write YAML, sometimes

from memory, you're going to be able to do more declarative

work.

The reason you care about doing declarative is that it's

what you do to make it automated.

You can't really automate a solution like this unless

you have full declarative approach to it.

That means you're going to start taking this YAML and

putting it in your git repos, and you're going to save it,

and you're going to versions of it.

It's going to become the documentation of

not just your app deployments, but really the whole cluster

itself. Your process with all this is create

the YAML. Use kubectl apply.

Edit the YAML. Use kubectl apply, Do

a git commit every time you do that so that you have

this change log in the history built into git.

That is known as GitOps, which

is an exciting new trend that I love, and I'm very much

behind because it allows us to automate our

deployments and automate our infrastructure with

much more reliable approach than what we've had in the

past. Like I said earlier, the practical of this is

that you're going to start out with the easier commands.

The runs, the creates, like we've been doing.

You'll start getting used to your own YAML. The resources

that you're making the most often are going to be the ones you'll

save.

Some local YAML is your little pile

of secret sauce on how you make your YAMLs perfect.

Over time, you'll reuse those.

You'll change them as the versions, remember the versions

in the API versions will change.

You'll have to update those versions with new versions of

Kubernetes sometimes, and that's how you'll evolve.

Later, when we start talking about Kustomize, with a

K, and Helm, these skills you're building

now in YAML will

apply to those new tools that are higher levels of abstraction for how we deploy

complicated apps and how we use templating in

our YAMLs so that we don't have to create a YAML every

time we need one. Lastly, a few tips.

As you start to get to be a professional YAML-er or

YAML-ist, you can use YAML

lints. Those are programs that will just check the standard

YAML formatting. They're not Kubernetes aware, but they're

useful. There's Web versions, there's CI

versions for you automating.

Then, there's also Kubernetes schema specific

tools, including a website, kubeyaml, that

you can just paste your YAML into to see if it applies to

the spec. I don't really use the Web version much because

I've always got my kubectl locally, so I just type it.

But, in case you're not near a computer, or if you're

working offsite or something, you can just paste that into

a website. The CI tools, I recommend you

start testing in your automated infrastructure.

Maybe you're not fully automated yet, but some day,

you're going to be testing your software, and

you probably should test your YAML as well.

This is part of your code. In essence, it's the

configuration and description of your application, but it's

just as important to test.

I've given you a couple of links there to some popular

tools in the ecosystem for testing both the YAML

itself and then the Kubernetes spec to make sure that

before you apply it, these things are gone

through your CI system.