Hey, in that last video, did I say it was the last

of the YAML? Because we're not quite done yet.

This is not really a YAML video.

This is more about, hey, how can I take my

YAML? OK.

It's a YAML video. Let's talk about server dry run and

diff. So, server dry run is similar to dry

run. You've seen dry run already.

We've talked about that. We've used it several times.

It's a client-only thing, which means

it doesn't apply in the real world, necessarily, against

your cluster's spec and API that might

be different than your client.

We can actually make this happen.

We can force this example so we can see

that the client would work maybe when a server

wouldn't work, or vice versa, because they are different.

So, what we're going to do is we're going to create a real

resource. We're going to create a deployment, we're

going to save the output of it into YAML into a file.

Then, we're going to edit that file, do it similar to what

we did with rng, where we're going to take the deployment,

and then we're going to swap it out with it just changing

the kind to DaemonSet.

Then we're going to dry run it against our local CLI.

Then, we're going to compare that to what it looks like to

dry run against the server.

On our command line, let's do a kubectl create deployment.

We'll call it web.

We'll make image nginx.

That'll be what we deploy.

And then we'll do output yaml.

then greater than web.yaml.

So, it'll save the YAML output

of that created resource to a YAML file.

Then, just open up that file with your editor.

We're going to change the second line there of the kind.

We're going to save that after we change

it to DaemonSet.

Then, we're going to use apply this time to run a dry run.

So kubectl apply -f,

that web file, web.yaml --dry-run --validate

false. Because before, we had the validation problems.

We're going to disable the validation,

and then we're just going to output YAML while we're at it.

So, we got a bunch of YAML output.

The way I know this is not valid

is that if I look up here under

the spec, we see replicates.

So, we turned off the validation so we wouldn't get a

warning. But, the replicas here, we know from our previous

adventure on DaemonSets is that replicas

can't belong in a DaemonSet spec.

It's not a part of that spec that's allowed.

So, we turn on the validation again, we would totally get

an error. So, let's do this same command, but

we're going to change one option.

We're going to change that dry run option

to a server dry run option.

Again, that's pretty new.

That's with 1.13, or newer, that this has come out.

In case you're interested, there's a resource link

to the blog post, talks a little bit more about when this

came out and what their goals are.

We're going to go back to the command line,

and we're going to hit the up arrow so that I have that

same command. I'm just going to change that --dry-run to

a server. So, I'll add in the server -dry-run.

We'll run it again. Now, because we have the validate

false, it will not error out.

But if we go up to the spec, notice the spec.

It's different.

There is no replica listed there.

So, it's done what we thought was happening all

along. If you remember back when we had the deployment of

rng, and we turned it into a DaemonSet, when we applied it

to the server after we had changed it, it still worked.

We didn't...if we turned off the validation, it technically

worked against the API.

So, this server dry run spits back

after it does all the calculations on the server

and does everything on the server except write

this to disk. The step it's skipping is

just writing to the database.

It's doing everything else against this configuration,

and then it takes the result and spits it back at us.

It's proving to us what was technically happening

earlier was, what that was,

was the deployment was turning into

a DaemonSet by the API stripping

out the invalid parts of the spec that

aren't valid. So, when we turn off that validation against

the server, it just happens to dump everything it doesn't

know about. If the replicas isn't a part of the DaemonSet,

it just throws it away. So, when we get this YAML back,

it's missing.

This is a good thing. This is actually a good thing because

it means that the database isn't going to store

invalid parts of the spec.

But, it does prove a point that the server

behaves slightly different than the client.

The server has add-ons, and additional features, and

you can even have different versions of the client versus

server. When you do that kubectl version, That's

why it spits back with both the client and server versions,

is you can be off by one or two possibly,

and that will result in different results

on the server versus the client.

So, now that we have this server dry run, I advocate

its use all the time.

In fact, I would even suggest in your CI, you

figure out a way to consider trying to apply these things

and inspecting results through some sort of eventual

fancy automation.

For now, we're just applying it ourselves and seeing the

results out of it.

But, I think in the future, we're going to have more tools

to take advantage of this to validate what's

really going to happen when we deploy to a server.