Now, when we change this deployment, what

if we wanted to change other things about it?

What if we wanted to change our rollout strategy

to be more cautious? We can change a lot of those values.

So, here is an example where maybe we want to, at the same

time, instead of what we did in the last lecture, we could

change the image to v0.1.

We could be conservative around our availability, meaning

we

limit the number of containers that go down and we slow

down the speed at which they're changing.

So, we only do one pod at a time.

Lastly there, we give it a wait period, so we

wait for it to warm up a little bit.

This gives us a pause between the updates.

So, we could actually change all of these values during

a rollout. There's several ways to do this.

We could technically do the kubectl edit, which will open

up our default editor and allow us to just change anything.

We've done that before. But, there's another way we can do

it as well known as patch.

Patch is similar if you're used to git, the

way that git patches and other differencing solutions.

It's a little bit like that.

If you just, of course, use kubectl patch --help,

you can get some examples of the subcommands there, but

this is a great example. This is essentially us...imagine

we didn't want to change or edit the entire deployment.

We just knew the parts we wanted to change and we're

going to patch that into the existing YAML.

So, in this example, and I'm not going to make you type all

of this, so we're not going to actually do it.

But, you can see here that this is technically the YAML

spec part that I want to change.

I don't want to change anything else, and we just want to

change the image, as you can see here.

We want to change the MaxSurge and Unavailable.

Then we want to change another new key here,

minReadySeconds.

So, we have these three that we're going to change, plus

the image name. So, we have to give it at least enough of

the YAML tree to find its way back to the root, right.

So, I always have to have the spec in the template and then

the pod spec, and that has to be there so that

it knows where to patch it into.

But, once you've done that, you don't have to list all the

other things in this patch. In the -p here is what we

indicate as saying here comes the patch I'm about to put

it into the command line.

Down here we have our rollout status that we get to watch

it. We could then go back and

verify that afterwards. Make sure that it's changed.

That's a good example of doing a patch.

It does the same type of thing as an edit, and it is

similar to what we would do if we just did another apply.

Between the undo and the standard apply commands, and

the edit command, and the patch command, you've got a lot

of different ways to manage your different resources

through YAML.