A common question that people ask when they're implementing

healthchecks is whether or not a healthcheck

on one part of a multi-tier app should

be checking the other parts that it's dependent on.

That can be a little tricky to answer, but I'm here to

help. The first thing, just to say that there's a limit to

this and how healthchecks work, is the probes can't check

remote things. So, the HTTP and the TCP

handlers are only meant to talk to that container

itself. So, it can't technically go reach out to something

else on its own.

But you could have an application like a Web App

that if you're hitting a particular endpoint, maybe

/health, that that particular endpoint kicks off

code that does other checks and validations from

the app's perspective. We might imagine

a Web server that has to talk to a database and

the Web server URL you hit could do

a database check to make sure that it has a connection to

the database. But, you have to be careful about how

these work and which ones you're using.

If it's liveness, then the liveness should always succeed

even when it can't check that database

or can't reach the database.

If it's a readiness, which doesn't kill a container,

readiness just takes it out of the service.

It's that readiness that should fail.

The liveness, well, the reason we don't want to do this

is really for cascading failures.

If you have a database that goes down for maintenance and

you have a liveness check, that depends on that database,

now your website is going to crash too.

It's going to be killed and restarted.

This could be something that spreads

to all the different parts of your app if they're designed

in this way.

So, the key part of the liveness is it has to focus

on only that container. The readiness ones, you can make

a little more advanced where they're depending on remote

dependencies.

This is true of not just websites and databases,

but any hard dependency that your app has

to have. That is really only left to readiness.

You want to have the liveness only focus on

the container itself.

The next thing that a lot of people ask is what

do I do for healthchecks on applications that don't receive

connections, and they don't have a built-in tool like a

database? Maybe it's a worker process.

Now, in this case, I'm not talking about our Dockercoins

worker. I'm just talking about workers in general.

Things that do processing, but

they don't have inbound connections.

Maybe they're processing files or they're going out and

reaching out for remote connections.

So, what do we do about those? Well, we know that we're not

going to use the readiness because, again, that's only

for services. So, we're focused on the liveness check

here. A lot of people talk about Web services, but with

workers, there's no HTTP endpoint, and

we don't necessarily want to add in a

embedded Web server just to do that.

That's a pretty expensive thing to add to your app

just so that you can check health.

So, I want to give you two options.

The first one is to add some

code to your app that it simply writes

a file, or touches a file, on the file system.

Then your liveness check will go

and look at that file and make sure that the date is within

the threshold. So, your code would possibly write

at least once every few seconds, and then

your liveness check would check every 10 seconds.

And if the file was older than 10 seconds, then it would

fail the healthcheck. Makes sense?

The other one here is writing to logs.

So, you technically could have a log in the container

that's just writing a line of text

about everything's OK, everything's OK.

Then, it would have a date timestamp in it and your

liveness check would go in and read the last line in the

file and process that.

