Let's get back to DockerCoins and add some healthchecks to

our app. First, let's go through the questions I just

talked about and see if we can apply

certain types of healthchecks to certain parts of our app.

The first question is liveness, readiness.

Do we need startup? Do we need all of them?

In the case here, a lot of this is about running

your app in production to learn

the behaviors and how it needs to be checked.

You don't want to check for imaginary things that never

happen. A lot of good healthchecks come out of

real world problems that someone then writes code to check

for that to make sure that it never happens again.

In our case, we're going to stick with liveness because we

don't really know the long term behaviors of our app.

And, liveness is something that you always want to approach

first. You don't really do readiness without

a liveness. Liveness is the key, essential ingredient that

I keep talking about. Then, we need to think about what

kind of handler we're going to use for each one of these

apps. Now, for three of these, we know that they already

have HTTP endpoints.

The random number generator, the hasher and the web GUI.

So, we can probably use those right out-of-the-box.

But, we need to do a little bit of digging into them to see

what is the code that responds to that root

URL and let's make sure that it's not anything complex

or expensive.

We kind of know already that these things tend to respond

in less than a second.

So, if we were to dive into the code and work with the

developer team on these apps to see what it's going to do,

we can kind of determine here that with these three

different apps that are in three different languages, that

there's not much going on.

It's doing a very simple amount of work.

In the case of a couple of them, it's even logging every

time there's a connection.

That means that your healthchecks here are going to

generate more logs.

So, this is one of those cases where maybe if we were going

to program some more stuff, we would make a special

endpoint, and then we would get rid of that in the logging

so we didn't have a bunch of healthcheck logs filling

up and mixing with our client connections.

But, that's for another day.

Today, we're going to keep it simple.

We're going to add a few healthchecks here and

see how they work.