For this example, we're going to download some new

YAML. At your command line, you're going to use git

to clone a new repo that's the same

YAML we used earlier.

But, what I've done for you is split up the YAML so that

there's one file for each resource.

When you get into production scenarios and you have lots of

big complicated apps, it tends to be easier

for us humans to manage the YAML when there's smaller

amounts of it in individual files.

The cool thing is we can still apply it with one command,

and it'll pull in all the files from that directory.

Inside a temporary directory on your machine, we go

to git clone https

github.com/bretfisher/kubercoins.

All right. Now that we've got that, let's go in there, and

if we just do an ls, you'll see that for each service,

and for each deployment, we have it's own YAML

file. There's very little information

in there. Each one is probably less than ten lines.

So, that makes it easier to manage them instead of one,

large file that we constantly have to search through.

In this case, we're going to use a liveness probe.

Since the startup probe is in Alpha,

we're not going to use that yet.

We're going to use the initial delay seconds to

say, wait 30 seconds for these apps to start up

before ever trying these healthchecks.

Then, we're going to have the path and port here.

Then we're going to ask it do it every five seconds.

That seems pretty reasonable for our app to

do it every five seconds.

Down here, I just want to remind you we're using a lot of

the defaults since we're not setting every single key and

value here.

So, the timeout is one second, which for a lot of us would

be pretty short.

I find that that's one of the ones I tend to bump up

because one second is a pretty

quick response under heavy load.

So, I would probably, in a real world scenario, make that

a five second response or something like that.

For now, let's just edit the rng

deployment, and add this to the random number generator,

and test it out.

Go ahead and edit the rng deployment file.

I'm going to do it in Vim.

We're going to come down here in the spec and add in

the information from the last slide.

You could copy it, paste it.

You could type it in manually.

But, it's going to end up being at the very bottom.

I'm going to paste this in here.

The biggest problem that you'll have is if

you don't get the proper indentation here, you'll

get an error that it can't find these particular keys.

It'll say, I don't know about initial delay seconds.

What is that? That's usually an indication that you have

the indentation wrong because at the different levels of

the spec, it won't find that key.

So, we have to make sure.

If you need to go back to the previous slide and look at

it, we need to make sure this is all underneath the

liveness probe and that the

http git path and port are

indented as well.

You would also need to check the file you're using, when

you're copying and pasting this stuff in, to make sure that

you're using the same two spaces, or four

spaces, setup of the particular YAML file.

So, that's probably the most common issue I see

with people.

When you try to apply it, you'll get a validation error,

and that's a hint that you need to come back in here and

check your indentation.

All right. I've saved that file and we're going to run the

apply against that directory.

The nice thing about apply with a dot is it says

in this directory I'm in now, take all the YAML files

you see and apply them as if they were one.

That's a pretty convenient feature.

Then, we're going to see here that everything says

unchanged because I already had this running from

previous lectures, except for the rng.

You'll notice that it says it was configured.

So, we know something's changed.