Let's talk about healthchecks for redis, which will be

quite different than an HTTP check.

In this case, because there's only one pod,

we don't need to do a readiness check.

Readiness checks don't add a lot of value when there's not

any level of redundancy because they're really

meant for pulling something out of a service.

Now, technically, we have a service with redis, but that's

just so that it has a stable endpoint and not for

multiple container pods that we need to switch back and

forth between. That's not why we have it.

So, in this case, if we had a readiness check,

all it would do is make sure that we

couldn't access redis.

So, a liveness is enough.

That's the one we want is that, and we can use a

built-in command line tool from redis, the cli

ping, which will basically return a pong.

If we do it on the redis container itself,

then it doesn't need a special connection, in our case,

because we're not doing something with passwords or

anything like that. Of course, it gets more complicated

when you have authentication and stuff like that for redis,

but we're not doing that.

This brings us to talking about a segue

topic of zombies.

No, not those kind of zombies.

A different kind of zombies. The zombies that are the real

kind of zombies. This is the closest we've ever had to real

zombies, which is Linux has this idea

around a process, the PID

1 as we call it, is the first process

to start on a Linux system, and its main job is

to manage all subprocesses.

When we're in a container, the first process to start in

there is the PID 1 process, and that becomes

its job to reap zombies, or

subprocesses, that don't have

a parent process or weren't shut down properly.

Without getting too much into the technicals of how this

works in Linux, the point here is that when

we do exec commands, we have the potential

for commands that we're running inside exec to

not shut down properly.

We need a parent process that is

designed to reap zombies.

In this case, we're going to talk about tini because it is

one of my favorite ways to solve this problem,

and it solves it really easily and it's

reliable. There are lots of other scenarios.

And I say lots, but really the only other one I would

recommend is this option down here.

But that one is a little more advanced.

I think tini is more widely used, and accepted, and

understood. You can also do this in Docker or other

solutions like Docker Compose.

It's not specific to Kubernetes, but tini

is a process that we add into our container.

So, first step is we'll need to install it

in the container image for redis and then we use

it to start our ping.

So, when we go back and we talk about the redis cli ping

command that we're going to do for our liveness check, we

want the tini process to run

that for us. If we jumped over to the tini web

page, we can see there is a pretty easy way

to add it to your Dockerfile.

Because if you remember, any exec you do

in a liveness check, that command it's running has

to be in the container image itself.

So, in this case, if we want to add tini to this process

to solve this zombie problem, we have to make

sure that it's in the container image.

Once it's in there, we have a couple of other

steps.

We start with making sure that redis image

that we've built with the tini is working.

Then, we need to change our YAML

so that the DockerCoins are using our new redis image

that you've built.

Then, we need to enable the liveness check in that

same YAML to do the proper command.

You can see down here at the bottom, this is what it would

look like. The way this is working is

tini will be the program that

Kubernetes launches through Docker, right.

It's going to tell the container runtime

to run this command in an exec process inside the redis

container while redis is still running.

So, this is technically an additional process.

We're going to have it run tini.

We're telling tini then to

run the redis CLI for us.

In case there's anything that goes wrong with the redis CLI

when it's doing that ping command, maybe it times out,

whatever, then it'll be tini's

job to reap it, or make sure that it properly

has a parent, which is tini, and

then properly shut down when the exec quits.

If you want to understand more about this, there's

a pretty great video from KubeCon down at the bottom.

On this video, you'll see it in the resources.

It's called 10 Ways to Shoot Yourself in the Foot with

Kubernetes. This one about tini and redis,

in particular, is near the end.

It's a great talk from people at Datadog

and they're, if you don't know them, they're a monitoring

company. So, they run lots of containers and lots

of servers. They found that specifically with redis and the

redis CLI, that

this was a particular issue. But, it's a good opportunity

for you to learn a little bit about tini.

So, go read the repo, and then learn a little bit about

zombie reaping and the PID

1 process. You'll want to go back and maybe do some

Googling.

I'll put some references in this for that purpose.

I've talked about this also several other times in

my courses. If you've taken my Node.js course, I

talk about it, and I talk about it in my DockerCon talks

because we want to make sure that the processes in

containers are shutting down properly, and not everything

is designed to be a PID 1 process.

For a good example of this, you can head over to my GitHub

repo for the redis tini, where I've basically

built the solution myself.

And, in the Dockerfile, I, from the official

redis image, I add in tini.

That's all you really need to do there.

Then, I have an example of the redis deployment

where I change the image name, and then I add in the

liveness probe.

I wouldn't recommend you use my image because

I don't want you relying on my example code for production.

But, this is good for you. You could make your own image

that looks similar to this, and that would allow you to

have the liveness check in your own redis

containers.

