Even though I like environment variables, and we've got

lots of options with the Downward API and other

template-like features, we'll talk more about that

stuff, especially templates for YAML later, when talk

about Kustomize. That's with a K, and with Helm,

two popular options for templating, or allowing you

to set things dynamically in YAML as you run

it. If we don't use environment variables,

what other options are there? We haven't listed them all.

The next one is a big one.

It's probably the second most common behind environment

variables, and that's pushing entire

configuration files into your app.

A good example might be Postgres or MySQL.

These often need their own dedicated config files.

Technically, you can take an environment variable and

shove the whole contents of a text

file into that environment variable.

You could do that, but it gets ugly

and it's not really a best practice.

Turns out there's a much better way to do that.

It's called ConfigMaps.

ConfigMaps is a full-fledged resource in

Kubernetes. It's just like the other types of resources,

except this one doesn't make a pod

or a schedule anything.

It stores the contents of files

or key/values.

We'll talk about both here.

The most common way to do it is to take a file

and put it in the command line.

Then, the contents of that file are put into this

key/value store as the value.

In a lot of cases, we'll see some options like

this where in this first example, I'm doing

create configmap.

That's one of the create commands. I'm telling

it the name I want for this object.

But, then the key/value is from here,

and it's going to make a key called the name of the file.

Then, the value is the file contents

itself. Now, if I don't like that and I want to override

the key, I can technically do that with

double equal signs. You can see that I can put an

equal here. That'll be the key.

Then, the value will be the contents of a different

file. So, you could do something like this where maybe

you have multiple different files locally.

When you deploy them into the pod, they all need to be the

same file name.

So, you put them in like this.

Then, because this single ConfigMap can technically be

multiple key/values, because it is a map, which implies

that it can hold multiple things.

We could technically give it a whole directory, and they

would all be in that one, big ConfigMap.

That's not quite as common I find, because it just gets a

little more complex. But, this is good when you have

applications that need multiple files to configure

them. And, you're always going to deploy those two files or

ten files together.

Hopefully it's not ten, just two or three, hopefully.

And those would be deployed together every time you

set this ConfigMap to a pod.

But, there's other ways you can use ConfigMap.

It doesn't just store the contents of files in the

Kubernetes API inside the etcd database.

It can also do standard key/values.

So, this example here has us creating a

ConfigMap. Notice that we can abbreviate this here with CM.

That's the short name.

Then, we can call it my-app-config

again for the name of the ConfigMap object.

Then, we can give it multiple key/values.

So, the from literal means don't

go read a file named this.

Just literally take this key and value and store

them in. So, we can store in this key/value.

We can store in this key/value.

We can also take the contents of a file and store

them as individual key/values, which is pretty neat.

But also, I don't find as common, where you

can say, from an environment file, take all these

and store them in the ConfigMap.

The interesting thing about ConfigMap is that instead

of with environment variables, where it's often something

that you would store templates, and you would have

those settings maybe stored outside of Kubernetes, the

ConfigMap, the goal here is that everything is in

Kubernetes. You're storing and changing these as

ConfigMaps and then attaching them to the pods that

you need them to be attached to, and you don't need some

other system to store all these variables.