Now that we know how to get stuff into these

ConfigMaps, we need to learn how we can use them in

the pods and containers themselves.

We have two options here.

The first is to send it in as a file

mounted like a volume.

That seems to be the obvious thing.

and why would we have this other option?

Well, there's a neat option that allows you to send it in

as an environment variable. So, this is the opposite,

essentially, of what we did earlier.

This is stored in the etcd database,

available by the API.

Then using the Downward API, we can

send it in to the container as environment

variables. Let's get to the command line and do one of

these examples. In this case, we're going to use HAProxy,

which is similar to the proxy features in Nginx

or Traefik. But, HAProxy has been around forever.

And, unlike Nginx, it's just a proxy.

But it can do more than https.

It can proxy lots of different things.

So, it's maybe a little bit similar to the new Traefik

2.0 feature set.

But, HAProxy has been around for so long that it's a very

standard solution, and we have a single

file that will configure it.

It's maybe 15 lines.

Pretty simple.

So, we're going to send this HAProxy config file

into a specific path where HAProxy expects it

to be. That's under user/local/etc.

It's a plain text file.

Nothing special about it.

In this case, all it's really going to do is it's going to

proxy our connections through cURL

to different websites.

It's kind of silly, but we're going to have it rotate

between Google and IBM.

And, we can cURL this pod, and it will

send us to one of those websites.

So, the first thing we need to do here in this example is

to get the file. So, you can cURL, or Wget,

or bring it up in a web browser and save it.

However you want to get this file. But you can get it from

the course URL here at K8smastery.com.

In this case, I'm using cURL with a capital O to download

it into an output file.

Then, we're going to create ConfigMap from it.

Unfortunately, the --from-file feature in

the create ConfigMap does not support a URL

like some of the other things like apply can do.

So, we have to first download the file. Then, we're going

to upload it into a ConfigMap. Then, we're going

to check to make sure that it has what we need

in it. A ConfigMap is more than just the value.

There's actual other metadata, just like you would see for

the standard YAML of any resource in Kubernetes.

So, we can use the get configmap to take a look at that

format.

In my case, I'm going to use the cURL Command.

If you don't have that locally, like I said, you can use

Wget, or you can download it from a web browser.

I'm going to download this to my current directory, and

then we need to create the ConfigMap here.

It's a pretty standard syntax like before, kubectl

create configmap.

We're going to call it haproxy and then

--from-file=haproxy.cfg.

So now, we've done that and it's stored

inside the API.

Then, we can do kubectl get

configmap haproxy

-output, -o for output, yaml.

We'll see not just the file itself,

but it starts with what you would expect.

A resource in Kubernetes.

Has an API version and the data, you

can see here, is a key/value.

This would be the key because, by default, remember that

this is the file name.

That's the key, by default.

Then, the value is this stuff.

It always starts with a pipe plus.

That is a YAML thing for allowing us to dump a bunch of

information in. Then, it finishes up down here.

The kind is ConfigMap, as we would expect.

Then, there's metadata about this resource, which all

resources have metadata, like the name of it, and which

namespace it's in, and the creation timestamp.

So, the only thing special about it is the fact that

there's this stuff in data, which

is in clear text, and nice and easy for us to read.

