Now we're going to change to the second type of example

where we take a ConfigMap and we expose it as environment

variables with the Downward API.

In this case, we're going to run a different image.

We're going to run the Docker Registry, which is an

upstream standard registry.

It doesn't have a ton of features in it, but it's a

nice example of running a container that needs to have an

environment variable in it.

But, instead of us hardcoding that inside

of the YAML, we're going to store the value in a ConfigMap,

and then assign it to the pod.

Let's see how that works. First, we're going to create the

ConfigMap. You can see here that we're using the from

literal, which tells it to not ingest

any file name. It is simply saying here is the

key and value I would like you to add as a part

of the ConfigMap. Then,we can then get the

ConfigMap back and make sure that the format is what we

expect. kubectl create

configmap. We're getting good at this one.

registry --from-literal=http.addr=0.0.0.0:80. Now,

this little key/value is the settings

that Registry expects when it starts

up for which port it's going to run on.

Now that we store that in a ConfigMap, let's just make sure

that it looks like what we think it should.

configmap registry output

in YAML.

We'll see that it's much shorter this time because we don't

have a full file stored in there.

The data is right here.

The API version and the kind is ConfigMap, as before.

Now, you'll notice that this is slightly different because

it's stored without the pipe

plus.

So, it's not a bunch of stuff stored that's

not YAML. This case, it's stored as valid YAML.

When we're going to create this pod for the registry, we're

going to use the ConfigMap.

So, instead of a volume this time, since we're using

environment variables, it'll look a little different.

In this case, we're setting under the environment variables

area, we're stating the name of this environment variable.

Then, for the value, we're not going to just

hard code that in. It's not a template.

We're going to say value from and ConfigMap

key reference.

Then the name of the ConfigMap to go find.

Then the key to go look up the value for.

Hopefully, that makes sense.

So, you're really adding this whole part right there.

This time, we're going to apply a different YAML that has

that exact stuff we just saw.

kubectl apply -f https//k8smastery.com/registry.yaml.

That's going to create the registry pod.

Of course, it has to download the image in the background

so it might take a minute.

But, while it's doing that, we can go ahead and attach to

the shpod because we're going to do another cURL command.

If you don't have access to the pod IP address directly

from your host, we need to jump back into shpod.

In this case, we're going to do a kubectl get pod

registry and look for that IP address

again.

OK. Good. It's up and running and we've got the IP

address, so let's store that in an environment variable.

I'm just going to copy and paste that whole line into

there.

Now that we have an environment variable, of course, again,

you didn't have to do that.

You could just copy and paste the IP itself.

You could do a curl IP.

In this case, because we're cURLing the registry, we need

to cURL a specific location, v2 catalog.

Because we haven't stored any images in there,

it's going to be an empty array.

I mean, obviously this isn't about the registry.

This is more about, did we properly get this connected?

The way we know that is because it's normally running on

port 5000, but we just cURLed it on Port

80. So, we know that that config value

in the environment variable worked, because otherwise we

would not be able to cURL it.