Thank you so much for taking this course.

It's designed for a wide audience but here are some basics.

You definitely need to be someone who has Node.js

basics and fundamentals in hand, because I'm not teaching

you Node.js. You will definitely learn some things that are

applicable to Docker and containers with Node.js.

But, this course isn't designed to teach you a programming

language. It's assuming that you know Node.js enough to

write simple apps at least.

The other thing is, you need to know the basics of Docker.

If you haven't checked out my Docker Mastery course, that's

where you learn those basics. You learn the core

fundamentals of the command line, how to make images and

all that stuff. You're going to need, definitely, those

skills before you start this course.

So, go check those out, if you haven't already.

Once you've got those basics, this is a course for anyone

on the Node.js path, whether you're someone who's

relatively new to both Node and Docker.

Or, maybe you've been using Node and Docker for quite some

time now, but you want to make sure you're getting the most

out of it. I have been using Docker and Node since the

early days of Docker and the early days of Node.

For years and years now, I have used both these products,

and I'm a big fan of both. So, I'm excited that we finally

have the best course, I think, on the Internet,

for learning how to get the best out of Node and the best

out of Docker together.

With this course, we're going to start out with some

review.

You're going to have a section on Docker Compose

basics, sort of as a review.

If you haven't really learned Docker Compose yet, it'll be

helpful for you to have that. If you've already learned

Docker Compose, it's a quick review of what you're going to

need to know to get going forward in this course.

Then after that, we're going to jump into the Dockerfile

and focus on getting the best, basic core

Dockerfile you can so we can build on that throughout the

course. You're going to see that throughout this course,

how we're going to iterate and make things better, and

better, and better as we go, learning on different

techniques that you learned in the past sections.

So, you can definitely jump around in all these different

sections if you want.

But, it's designed that you kind of take in order so in

case you skip ahead and you check something later in the

course and it doesn't quite make sense, or some things I

mention, check back earlier in the course to make sure that

you didn't miss some of those key videos to relate

to that later video.

Once you've got those basics down of the Docker Compose,

and the Dockerfile and the Docker image,

then you're going to focus on some nuances that

you maybe might not completely understand, and I'm going

to clear it all up for you.

One of those is understanding how Docker and Linux,

in general, control the Node process.

How Docker changes that to make sure that you know

what different options there are for starting up and

shutting down Node, and what the right ways to do it are,

in different scenarios.

Then, you're going to jump into some neat, advanced, newer

features. Some that are brand new as of these videos

coming out, around making that Dockerfile the most

efficient and flexible possible, using things called

BuildKit, and Multistage and a whole bunch of other stuff

you'll learn.

Then, in the next section, I'll jump back a little bit and

talk more about distributed computing and cloud

design. Because that's really the core principles of Docker

is to use something called Twelve-Factor design.

We want to make sure that our Node apps are doing that in

our containers, and how we might migrate old apps

into this new way of doing things in a container.

After that, you're going to have a great section on

Compose. It's one of the most exciting for me to make in

this course, because it's taking all the sweet little

features of Compose that not everyone knows about,

and combining them all together to get you a really

efficient local development and test setup

with using Docker Compose command line and the Docker

Compose YAML file.

I'm pretty sure that most of you are going to learn at

least a few things in that section.

It's got a lot to it.

I hope you stick with that one and learn everything because

you'll be using those skill sets for the rest of the

time that you'll be using Docker in your career.

Later on in the course, after that, we're going to start

focusing on production concerns.

Now that you've built this ultimate developer setup, you've

concerned yourself with some of the testing things you need

to worry about. Now we're going to focus on production.

The first there is to worry about the image and to make

sure we have added all the production type things we

concern ourselves with into the images or into

the Dockerfiles themselves.

Then, we'll jump into deploying those

containers and running them in production.

Whether you're going to run those on someone else's setup,

or you're going to build your own servers and run them.

Whether you're going to use Docker Engine, or maybe

something fancier like orchestration with Kubernetes or

Swarm, I've got you covered.

We're going to cover some of the generalities of the things

you need to worry about. Specifically, when it comes to

HTTP connections and web apps, which

Node is great at. We'll focus on connection handling,

whether it's the start, the beginning, the middle,

the end of all those different connections, I've got you

covered on that. I even give you some sample files

on different orchestrators and ways you can go about

deploying your Node.js containers.

Again, I'm excited that you're taking this course.

I put a lot of love into this thing because I love both

Docker and Node.js.

As I've said, I've been using both for years.

I really wanted to take everything that I've learned from

others,

because you all teach me the same thing in my open source

on GitHub at conferences and community events that

I have been going to for years and years now.

I'm always learning how to make these things better.

I've taken everything I could think of and thrown it into

this course, which is why it's got so many videos.

I'm really excited for you that you're going to be learning

all this stuff too. I'll look forward to seeing you either

in the Slack Chat, or in the Q & A,

or sending me a Tweet with your completed certificate

that you finished this course.

Any of the ways you want to communicate with me is great.

I love to get feedback, good or bad.

I hope after you finish this course, you take a look at my

other courses and give me ideas for courses that you need.

Because, that's what I'm doing here is making more and more

DevOps type learning here.

I'm looking forward to your ideas on what you're ready for

next.


```
for wide audience: 面向广大观众

definitely need: 一定得……, 绝对需要……
```