Welcome to my first assignment in this course.

If you're new to my courses

and you haven't taken one of my assignments before,

they're a little bit free form

and they're meant to reinforce the stuff you just learned in the last few

lectures. This is a little bit like my other courses,

where this assignment has it's answer after that

in a video where I do the same steps you're going to do

and I talk a little, out loud,

about why I chose the things I did.

Please don't watch that video first.

I think it's much better for learning

and retaining the knowledge to put your hands on

and try to solve the problems yourself,

and understanding why you're doing it

and think through the issues,

and learn the thing as you go,

and then see my assignment answer after.

And maybe see why yours is a little bit different than mine,

or how you maybe did it a little different,

and hopefully that will help.

Though in this assignment, you're just going to be using the Compose

commands you just learned on a simple app that

you actually might recognize from Docker Mastery,

if you've taken that course.

In there, I had a simple node app using the Express framework.

Here,you're going to be in the sample -O2

directory. In there,

you can do an up command,

which is the typical thing you do at the beginning of the day.

Then you might control c out of that,

which is similar to stop. Then you might do a down

because it'll take everything down

and you'll do a sort of a fresh start up,

and then you'll use the detached mode

with -d. You might use a log command to

look at all the logs.

Then, I'd like you to use exec to shell into the container

while it's running and try to run cURL localhost.

You'll find that cURL is not installed.

You could just do an Alpine

package install right there in the container,

but I'd rather you back out,

in this case, and edit the Dockerfile because I want you to see how

the build workflow works.

That is, you're going to edit the Dockerfile

and then do another docker compose up,

and you'll realize that it doesn't rebuild the image because

you've already built the images.

That's the thing I want to make the point there on is the --build,

or doing an entire docker compose build,

one of the two, essentially is required,

in order to make sure that Docker Compose builds the images.

You may not always want to build images every single

time, and we'll see throughout this course cases where you might want

to do it and might not need to build.

Ideally, you're not having to rebuild constantly on every change,

right. We're going to talk about that in future lectures.

For now, I just want you to see Docker Compose in a typical workflow

and how you need to sometimes use build to make a new image.

That way, when you do the next docker compose up,

you'll have cURL installed

and you can check it.

Remember to clean up. Run this command to shut everything down

and clean up when you're done.

