You've arrived at the assignment answers for

the first assignment in the course.

Hopefully, you're not cheating and that you've tried this on your own a little

bit and at least got as far as you can before

reading this assignment or watching this assignment.

I also note in the assignment itself,

there's also a resource there that is going to have

the information from the slides so that you can just pull down a text file

and that way you don't have to keep watching the assignment video.

Hopefully, you saw that.

I'm going to run through this, just like I was you,

and I'll pass along some information along the way on why I'm doing what

I'm doing and how it works.

We're in the sample -O2 directory,

and in here I have a Node

app that you probably saw from Docker Mastery.

It's similar to the one in Docker Mastery if you

actually took that course.

Then here, I'm really just going to run this

with Docker Compose

and go through the typical workflow of the day.

You'll see that I have a Compose file already here

and a Dockerfile for you, so we don't really need to change those

yet. I'm going to run a docker compose up.

It'll build my image,

running through each of the steps, including the npm install that will take a second.

This is running in the foreground,

right. So, we're gonna see the logs,

and if you wanted to actually

see something, you're going to have to,

at the command line, if you want to run other commands.

Really, we need to run this in detach mode.

I like you to hit control c,

and then we're going to do a docker compose

down. One thing you should note here is if you just kind of wanted to dig around,

is if I did a docker image ls

and looked through my images, you see that I have the sample 02

image in there.

If I do a docker compose down,

it will delete the container

and the network,

but it won't delete the image.

If I did a docker image ls,

then you can see it's still there,

right. You would have to run other docker compose down commands

to delete other things.

If you just did a docker compose down --help,

you will see that there's multiple options there.

We talked about the -v in previous lectures.

You also have the option here to remove images if you so choose.

If I wanted to delete all images for this

project, I could do a --rmi space local,

and that will be this line right here.

That will basically tell it to delete all custom images it

built as a part of the docker compose up.

It won't delete ones it downloaded,

but it will delete custom built ones.

I don't normally do that, or have to do that,

because I find that Docker's build process,

it either works or it doesn't. The cache works correctly,

so you don't need to delete images as a part of a troubleshooting

step. If I wanted to not use

the cache, I would need to do a docker compose

build no cache,

which is similar to the docker build no cache option,

and that will build it from scratch every time

if I run that command. So,

you don't need to delete the image manually.

You could just use that no cache option if you think you want to start from scratch.

Maybe you had a run command that succeeded

but you actually want it to force running that run command anyway,

you could do that. Again, it's not a common problem

and a common issue, but there it is for you.

We'll do another docker compose up

with a -d this time so we get our command line back.

Then, there's other common commands you'll run,

like a docker compose ps.

That's going to give me several things.

It's going to tell me the name of the service.

I can kind of tell over here,

without even looking at the compose file,

the name of the project is sample 02.

Then here's an underscore that separates the different parts of the image

name. The second part there is just the name of the service.

Then the next one is the numerical number of the

replica. By default, every service has one

container or replica.

If I told it to spin up multiple containers

for that service and run basically multiple node

containers at the same time off that same image,

we would see 1, then 2.

Then, of course, you have a random number after that,

just to make sure that they're unique.

Then on the right, I can see the port that's being

redirected through publishing from my host into the container

itself. So, I could now go over to my browser

and do a localhost

3000,

and I'll get the app. Note, if you're on Windows

and you're using Docker Machine

with an older version like Docker Toolbox where you can't use

localhost, remember that you'll have to use the IP address

of the Docker Machine.

You can get that from the command line.

If you're on Windows 7, Windows 8.

Windows 10 Home

and using Docker Toolbox,

you can just do a docker machine ls at the command

line and it will show you your machine

and the IP address for it.

That's what you use in the browser along

with port 3000.

If you're already running something else on port 3000,

then you'll get an error that says port already

in use or address already in use.

That means you're running some other container

or some other application on that port.

So, you would just need to go in the Compose file

and change the port that it's publishing.

Remember, the left side is what you would change.

The right side of that port is what

is used in the container by the node app.

All right. I can also do docker compose logs.

That will give me the logs. If I had multiple services,

as we will throughout this course,

I could do a docker compose logs

and then the name of the service,

web in this case.

That would give me the logs just for that service in the

Compose file. Often when you're running Docker Compose

and you have active containers,

you may want to troubleshoot something

or get inside the container so that you can look at things more

closely if something's not behaving the way you expect.

So, you can use the Docker Compose command to do that,

docker compose exec web,

since that's the name of the service.

Then I can just do an sh shell here.

I'll shell into the container

and then I'll be right in that directory where the app runs from.

In this case, I was asking you to run a cURL,

curl localhost.

You'll notice that it says cURL not found because cURL is not installed in

the container. In this case,

I could just do apk,

which if you know this Compose file

and you look at the Dockerfile for this app,

you see in the Dockerfile that this is based on the Alpine image

and Alpine has a different package manager than you might be used

to. The Alpine images use apk,

or Alpine Package Manager.

Here, I would do an apk add update

and then curl. That would update the package manager

and then add the cURL package all in one go,

right. I could do that, but I want to permanently have it in the image,

so I'm going to exit out.

Then I'm going to go back over to my editor

and inside my Dockerfile,

I want to change this here.

And save that file.

While you're still running docker compose up,

you can still run another up,

and it will just make sure that everything is as it should be.

So you don't have to bring it down before you bring it up again.

So, docker compose up -d.

You'll notice that even though I change the Dockerfile,

it did not rebuild.

And that's because if the image already exists,

Docker Compose will not check for file changes unless you

do a --build.

So, we're going to have to do that same command again,

but at the end add a --build for it to see the

changes.

If I hit my up arrow a couple of times,

I can get back to that exec command

and I can exec back in

with a docker compose exec web sh.

This time, I should be able to curl localhost

and cURL works,

but I'm on the wrong port.

That's because you need to remember that the port in

the container is different than the port on your host.

So, if you were doing curl from your local machine,

you're going to do the published port.

You're going to curl the localhost of the published port.

In this case, the nice thing is they are the same,

right. If you go and check in the Compose file,

you'll see that 3000 is what we're publishing on.

We're also listening on 3000 inside the container.

So, what I need to do here is curl localhost 3000.

And there we go. We get back the cURL response.

This is just a small example of some of the workflow you might do.

I don't normally need to cURL inside the container on a daily basis,

but it's a simple example of how you might want to jump in

and run things inside the container.

If you exit out of there

and then do a docker compose down to clean

everything up, you'll be ready for the next lecture.