All right. The first one up here is using copy,

not add. If you see recommendations on the Internet,

or blogs, that suggest using the add command to get

your files into your image, you're probably

using the wrong command.

Only because we have these two features

now, copy and add in the Dockerfile, that essentially do

the same thing in terms of copying files in from the

command line from your local machine.

But, the add can do a lot more stuff.

It can actually download files from the Internet.

It can untar any files that it sees

in your local directory.

It basically got a little too confusing and

had some accidental side effects around copying

files in. So, the industry basically has decided

that you shouldn't use add unless you know why you need it,

and then only use it for that.

In this case, default to copy when you're putting your

files in your images and in Nodeland, we usually

just use copy. I rarely see anyone using the

add command and having legitimate uses for that.

Focus on copy for now and ignore any old

blogs you might see, from the early days of Docker, that

might suggest using add.

Next up is npm and yarn.

In all the official images that we're going to be using,

they're going to be built in by default.

They weren't always in Node by default, but nowadays, it's

normal to have them both there.

You'll hear us talk about base images later and what

you're from images should be.

Just know that you don't need to install npm and yarn.

In fact, you tend to probably just use the one that came

with the Node version that you're using.

If you need to specifically update one of them

because of maybe a bug or a new feature that you need, you

could certainly do that in your Dockerfile.

But, I don't normally recommend that out-of-the-box, by

default, due to versions and the expectation

around those packages being packaged with the same

Node version. Opinions are different on that, so it's up to

you. But, we won't be upgrading or installing

npm or yarn because they're there.

You can use either one. You'll see in this example file

here that I'm using the npm command.

But, certainly if you have a preference for either or, then

use those. I will be using npm in this course just because

I've been around Node a long time, and npm is always what

I've used. Just realize both can be used.

At this point, they more or less have most of the same

features anyway. Whichever one you use, make sure that

you're always cleaning up after yourself.

Just like with apt-get package management, you need to make

sure you do a clean. In this case, I'm doing an npm cache

clean with a force to make sure it cleans everything off

that's related to the caching, so that my image is as small

as possible. The next one here is using

Node in your cmd, not npm.

And npm is sort of the default way we've all

learned to launch programs in Node.

It's very convenient, but in your Dockerfile, there's a few

reasons to stick with Node and skip npm.

One reason is that npm requires another

application to run.

So, in that Dockerfile, when you're running that as a

container, now instead of just Node running,

you now have npm running and Node will run as a

subprocess. That's just the nature of one process launching

another. That adds complexity and an unnecessary layer,

or level, to our program running.

Secondly, it's not as literal as I like to

see it in Dockerfiles. I like Dockerfiles to tell me

exactly what's going to happen when it launches.

When I do something like npm start, then

that means that really what's going to happen is in some

other file that's not the Dockerfile.

I would prefer that for these production Dockerfiles that

we're talking about here, that we be very literal and

specific about exactly what JavaScript file we're

launching. Doing the Node command here gives us that

feature. Lastly, npm doesn't

work well as an init process. If you know

a little bit about processes in Linux, you

may know that there's always one main process that starts

when Linux starts itself.

This is true also in containers.

There's always one, main process that everything else

launches from. In a container, that's usually what we want

to start in the cmd.

We don't want to start something that then launches

something else, and we get this sort of tree structure.

One of the problems with npm currently is that it doesn't

handle the signal termination.

It doesn't pass signals correctly to Node.

So it tends to just improperly shut down the container

if we use npm here.

Again, keeping Node as the main process is simpler

and allows us to use direct signaling, as we'll learn later

in this course.

But for now, just know that we want to stick with Node.

The last little tip I'm going to give you here is not

necessarily a Node specific one.

But, since we do tend to move around, as you'll learn

through this course, with Node modules and copying our

files in, we're going to be using workdir a lot.

So, you shouldn't use cd or mkdir

inside of your Dockerfile.

You should really just use workdir, which does both.

workdir will make a directory if it's not there.

The one caveat is if you need specific permissions

on a directory when it's created, a run

mkdir might be better for you, and

it's really sort of a one-off scenario.

Usually, I don't have too many permissions when I'm dealing

with Node because unlike some other programming languages,

it seems to be pretty tolerant of the default permissions

when you copy stuff in.

