I'm going to stop talking for a few minutes

and let you create an image for CentOS

with Node installed. The scenario here is that you're

in an Enterprise that can't use,

or is not allowed to use,

Debian or the Alpine base official images,

and that you'll need to create something maybe on Ubuntu,

or CentOS, or some other standard base image

that your company requires.

In this case, I'd like you to go through the exercise of creating

an image that starts from the latest CentOS.

All right. You're going to go find the official CentOS image,

which is linked in this reference,

but it's basically just go CentOS on Hub

and look for official. Then you're going to install

the binaries of Node.

So, to cheat, this is what I always do is I want

to see how the official repo installs Node.

I would go to the Node official image.

In this case we're going to use the 10 track.

I would look at the latest 10 image.

Basically you're going to click on the link to the Dockerfile

in that repo.

You'll see the Dockerfile there, and you can copy the lines out that

are important.

The nice thing here is that you can use an env to specify the Node

version. You're going to create an env in your Dockerfile

where you can just change the version and in that way,

it will pull the different binaries.

Because you're not going to be building Node.

You're going to be pulling down the binaries from the official

download locations on the Node.js website.

That's because we're stealing the lines from the official Node

image, which is what they do there.

Essentially you'll read through that Dockerfile.

Understand how they do it.

Then copy out the lines that are relevant,

and then make your own lines in a new Dockerfile,

based on CentOS.

Expect this to take a few tries,

right. I'm not going to get it right the first time as I go through

the assignment. It'll be my first time doing this in a while,

so I will do a couple of things wrong,

and you may also do a couple of things wrong.

And that's fine. This is sort of a learning process for how

and what you would need in this image to create your own

custom base Node layer.

Just as a reminder, this is useful for us to understand,

and it's a good habit to just every once in a while take an

app that you've been using for a while

and then try to make one of them on your own.

Essentially your own custom image.

You don't need to do this unless you need to do this,

right. If you are not in a company that requires CentOS

or Ubuntu, there's really no reasons to go outside the default

base images of Debian

and Alpine. I always use the defaults unless

I'm with some specific project in a company where they

have standardized on,

I don't know, some sort of Red Hat

or custom,

other image out there that I don't have as a default

choice in the official repo.

Just keep that in mind.

Good luck.

Once you've got it working,

or when you get stuck and you just can't seem to get it working,

then check out my assignment answer coming up next.