This lecture is me doing the assignment just like

you should have done it, and I'll be sort of starting

fresh. I've actually not even thought about this from a

practice perspective or exactly how every line is going to

go. So, I'm going to talk out loud as I do

the assignment. Hopefully, if you either had stumbling

blocks, or if you just wanted to watch this for bonus, you

can maybe get some tips or information out of

it on how I'm thinking about making this Dockerfile.

Because Dockerfiles, Compose files, all these things,

they're never going to be 100% exactly the

same between one person and the next person.

There's always a little bit of art involved, and

hopefully you'll learn something from this.

The assignment was to start with CentOS.

So, the first thing I've got to do is create a Dockerfile

and go get it on Docker Hub,

or at least learn which tag I need to use on

Docker Hub.

Over on Hub, I can probably just go there and search,

but

I'm pretty sure I could just type it in from memory but

just for you, like I would look for the official.

This is marked official image over here on the right.

So, that's definitely the one I want.

Then I go through all the tags.

I could click on the tags but really I just want the

latest. I'm probably going to stick with that, right.

So, CentOS 7 in production-like settings,

you would definitely set this to a specific

image tag, exactly the one you want, and you would manually

increment that. Because usually in production settings, you

want to control every version update of anything including

your from image. So, I never recommend using from in

production.

All right. We've got this here, so I can just type in

CentOS 7, right.

From

CentOS 7.

You'll notice if you're using VS code

and you have the Docker plugin like I have down here,

you'll get this extra functionality where it will go and

search Docker Hub for you as you type from name so you can

see that I have several to choose from.

I'm just going to stick with CentOS 7.

This is where the sort of tricky part is.

I know I need to set an environment variable and

that it needs to be the Node

version I'm going to use.

I could just call it node version,

right. In this case, I just want to

do 10 for now.

I know that it needs be 10 something, but I'm basically

going to go look at Docker Hub and

get more information from how the Node repo does it.

So, I can go to the top here, search for Node,

official image for Node.

Yep. All right. Click on that one.

I know we need to use Node 10 so I

want to use

the default 10 repo.

So really, sometimes what I do is I just, you know,

control f on Windows, command f on Mac.

I just want to search the page for

10. It looks like .15 is the latest.

And Stretch is...now I

just happen to know this about Debian releases.

Stretch is a little newer than Jessie.

It's the release after Jessie in terms of versions

of Debian. So, Stretch is probably the most current.

I can also just search for 10, right.

Because you can see down here this one is...so if

I did node:10, it would be this one.

So, these are all sort of aliases, or extra tags, for the

same one, right. So, let's go in here, and

I'm going to dig through

exactly what this thing is doing.

And see they have sort of the same thing.

Environment Node Version 10.15.1.

This is a best practice I always recommend around

if you have versions of things that you need to download

and install, or any apt packages, or yum packages, or apk

packages on Alpine.

I really prefer to have their versions hard coded and then

I have those versions as environment variables at the top.

The biggest reason there is anyone who is going to edit

this Dockerfile in the future is going to want to

know what versions or possibly change versions of things.

At first, it might seem logical to keep the versions of

things near where you are installing them.

But, really I think it's best practice to put all those

versions in environment variables that you want to change

at the top because if you end up with 100 lines in your

Dockerfile, it'll be confusing as to where you need to go

and you have to scroll through everything.

So, I like to keep them all at the top.

So, I'm just going to copy that and jump over here.

Back this out and do the same thing.

A third doing. The idea here is that I'm keeping it as

close as possible to the official Node

repo as I can.

That way, anyone in the future who wants to mess with this

or take over for me, maybe I leave the company or the

project, and it'll make sense to them because they

can just go look at it online.

In fact, I might even say here,

you know a comment. Always love the comments.

Node install taken

from official

Node image Dockerfile.

All right. So that way, they know where to look.

I could even make a link to the exact one I'm using.

Here, it looks like...it's just

happening..having read this before in many Dockerfiles,

because a lot of the standard open source

official images are very similar in the way they install

things. This is all setting architectures which

we only care about one in this, you know, in most cases

you're really only caring about x64.

That's the most popular by far.

So we may not need to set that.

And that's dealing with keys, so that we have keys

to download packages that we might need.

Essentially, it's downloading a tarball,

if you can see here.

Downloading a tarball of the Node

binary that needs to be installed.

You can see that it's using the Node version environment

variable here so that if you ever change that environment

variable, then it will pull the new version and we won't

have to go changing the code inside this run command.

You can see here that it's doing a GPG

to validate. It's actually doing a little bit of validation

here to make sure that the package that you meant to

download is the right one and that there wasn't any sort of

security man-in-the-middle attacks or anything.

It also...so yeah, it does the SHA right here.

Then you can actually see that it removes the tarball

once it's untarred it.

So, it's actually taken at the tar command and

pulling out the binaries.

Then it deletes and cleans up the extra tarball that you

don't need. Then it makes a link

for Node so that you can actually type the node command and

that will technically install Node.js.

In certain...or certain distributions of

Linux, the node command that you install is

not actually Node by default.

It's a Node.js because of...there's another package that

already uses the word node. So, in this case it's at the

very end it's making that, right.

You can see down here, if we even go farther, it looks like

they're setting yarn version, installing Yarn.

If you needed Yarn, you could definitely do this, too.

We're not going to do that in this case because npm still

comes with the default node that's installed

here. So, all I'm going to do is

to keep it easy, I'm going to just copy this

and try this first.

See if it works.

Right. So, I'm just copying in all of that stuff.

Because I'm on CentOS and

I'm not on Debian, it's

probably not going to work out-of-the-gate because this

is all designed for apt get and the Debian

architecture of where files are and what packages are

installed by default. So, this may not work

out-of-the-gate. We may have to do some googling to

figure out what's going on here.

Of course, you can see up here that they're smart.

They're actually adding the Node user,

setting up that Node user so that later on, it

can run Node as least privilege.

So, ideally we can do that, too.

We can maybe just copy that right out.

Save that. And then just do a docker build.

And we'll call this centos-node.

Okay. So, we got our first error.

That's one of the tricky things about

doing this kind of setup where you take and copy and

paste stuff. You're not exactly sure.

Maybe, see where it says here D package

not found. So in that case,

that is because, I just happen to know this, but you

probably look at this on on the Internet, you would find

that that's because Debian package, that's

essentially what this little utility is, and that's not

going to be on a CentOS platform.

There is going to be a different command for that.

So, one of the things I could do is I could

either just do random Internet searches, or I could

also look at the

CentOS packages and maybe see how some

of them, you know, maybe if I can find something based on

CentOS, I could find out how they do it.

What commands they're using and maybe get some hints

on that, especially if I'm not familiar with these base

images.

I could look in here, and you can see that the CentOS

images, themselves, are very, very minimal so they,

themselves, will not help you.

You're going to have to probably search around Hub or just

search around the Internet for, you know,

in my case I might just search CentOS, then look around

for people that are doing stuff with CentOS,

and that they have...if they've got a lot of downloads and

that means to me that they're probably better thought

out, better supported.

This is from Pivotal which is a popular IT company,

so they definitely provide

developer and project management software so they're going

to make good images. Maybe I'll go look at theirs.

Of course, you know, this one doesn't have a

Dockerfile so that kind of stinks.

Actually, well maybe there's one here.

Yeah, that doesn't work.

So, you get the sense. I'm going to fast forward this so

that you don't spend ten minutes watching me search the

Internet. But, imagine that this is what you have to learn,

right. You have to figure out what that command means and

you're troubleshooting that error.

The other thing I will normally do is once I start getting

these errors in these sort of installations, I will go

back into my file, and you'll notice how all of this here

is all one, huge run command. So, that can be problematic

because if, at the very end, in the very last line,

that's what errors out, then this whole run command has

to be run each time.

And that kind of stinks. So, I might do something

like, you know every time

there's two ampersands,

I might do this.

Well, not for this command. That's a bad example.

Sorry.

Because set, you want to keep in there.

So, when it gets down to here,

then maybe, you know, you can see there's a do done loop.

So maybe I don't want to break up that bash loop there.

So, again that requires you know a little bit about bash

and that it's doing a for each loop down there.

So, when I get down to these commands, maybe what I want to

do is I take out the little

ampersands, and then I take out the

backslash, and then I could do a run here.

And what this does is this basically provides

a new layer. This isn't efficient for in terms of

long term, you know size

and space in the image, but for troubleshooting and getting

your images working, you can do that.

Sometimes, I will do this for each line.

So, I would go to the end of this line, take out the

backslash, go to the next line,

and take out those, and then do the run thing here.

So that way, when each one of these is successful, if it

errors out on the next one, at least I don't have to run

the image layer above it, right.

It gets me a little bit faster and the troubleshooting

gets me through the problems that I'm having.

You know maybe I error out in the GPG, or the grep, or the

tar because maybe those aren't installed in CentOS, and I

have to go find those utilities and install them.

So, yes.

That could be helpful if you're trying to figure this one

out.

But, the problem that we're having right out-of-the-gate is

that it's saying the D package, which you can see here, is

not available and it's trying to print

out the architecture for Debian,

and we don't have that.

So, what we're going to do is in my case,

I'm going to take all of this out because we know our

architecture and I don't...so

x86 is the little x86 right here.

And if you kind of read through this, what it looks like

it's doing is it's setting environment variables based on

my architecture.

If you think about it for a minute, or even if you just

search those three letters in this file,

you'll realize that those are used down here,

right, in that same run command.

That way it pulls down the correct architecture tarball

for Node for your particular

setup. But since this course is all based on standard

x86, we don't need to pull

the architecture. In fact, I could do a

search and replace,

and for every time I see dollar sign

arch, let's just replace it with x64.

All right. And then, up here at the top,

I can delete all of

this.

I'm just going to get rid of this comment just because we

don't really need the comment since we're pulling from

official.

And then I'll clean this up.

So, it's going to first run that set and then

it's going to basically, for each one of these keys,

add them in to

the key server, and then...which

this may all error out because we may not have those

utilities and we'll have to go find them.

This is going to run cURLs, which may also not be

installed, but at least our

first problem is hopefully solved.

Let's go back.

Try it again. Just hit the up arrow.

All right. So, it looks like the keys all correctly

happened because we went to the next step, where I did the

run cURL and look at that.

So it looks like cURL was already in the image.

The GPG utility that's needed to validate

to basically put the keys are in there to...what's

the next step. You can see each one of these steps.

Step six was finished

and there we go.The last step.

So, a couple of things we can do.

First, I need to pull back

out these runs.

Put back in,

in order make this more efficient, right.

I want to make this thing as small as possible.

All right. Then down at the bottom, we need to change our

cmd just like they do on the official repo.

When we go back up and go to the Node.

If we go to the official Node repo.

Go back down to the 10 release,

and it just changes cmd to Node

by default. So, we need to do that as well.

Then one more build.

See if this works.

And yeah, and you know things are red sometimes in

docker build, but it doesn't necessarily mean that there's

an error. If it completes, then chances are,

you know, if any command line utility were to error out, it

will usually stop the docker build.

So, we know we've got something going on here.

So, now that I have this image, I can just do a real quick

test, right. I could do a docker...docker

run centos

node and I could just type

node version. There we go. So, cool.

That's what we wanted and it worked the first time.

I was very lucky. Didn't have to do a bunch of googling and

Internet searching. So, that's how I would have came

about it. It's not too fancy.

If I zoom out, I've only got 35 lines and almost

all of them, except for that first part talking about

architecture from Debian,

is pulled out, and then of course we changed the

environment variable down here to x64.

That's all I had to really do.

So great.

Hopefully yours was that easy.

See you in the next lecture.