Before we get to the good stuff in this course, I want to
give you a few pieces of advice on how to get the most out
of it. Obviously, you can just watch the lectures if you
want, but there's a lot more that you can get
out of this content.
Multiple ways, multiple senses.
One of the ways that's going to help is with Foxy.
This is my mascot, Foxy.
She is here to help let you know when different
types of learning are going to happen.
When you see exercises that have example commands, she'll
let you know. She'll also show up when it's assignment
time, when you're going to take a moment to learn on your
own, getting your hands on the keyboard to make things
happen. Then you get an assignment answer after that on how
I did it. So, thanks Foxy!
See you soon! The rest of this stuff is outside
of the lecture format.
You'll notice that Udemy has the Q & A, so you can
definitely check that out. The search in the Q & A is
great. This course has search in all the
closed captioning. Which means when you search in the
lectures, you get to search every word that I'm saying, in
every video. Clicking on that will actually take you to
that part of the video. It's pretty neat.
The other parts are off the platform of Udemy.
Let me just list what's going on.
There's several lectures below this that will get you into
the details of the key stuff you need to do.
First is the Slack Chat.
That's the community-based Slack live
chat channel that if you've never used Slack before, it's
just another chat like Facebook chat, or any
chat. That's one of the best pieces that come along
with this course because it's not just me there, or the
TA's. It's the entire community.
We have, I think at this point, over 15,000 people that
have taken my courses in there.
There's action every day.
People are talking about Docker, Kubernetes,
DevOps, other stuff.
They've made it a really great place to learn and help
others. I think one of the best ways to learn something is
to help others doing it along with yourself.
So, that's a key place to be.
Next, is the YouTube Live Weekly Q & A.
We're on Thursdays, most of the time.
You can show up on my YouTube Live channel.
Details in the next couple of lectures.
You can ask questions in chat.
I will try to come up with good answers live on the
Internet. We spend about an hour or so, and that show is
recorded and shows back up on YouTube later that day.
So, if you miss it, you can always watch it later.
Now, clips from that show, the best questions you
ask and the best answers that I have, end up back on
YouTube in little clips.
Some of those that are related to this course will show up
back in this course.
Then finally, DevOps and Docker Talk podcasts,
by Bret Fisher, is on all the
places that I know you can get podcasts.
So, you can now listen to that in audio only format.
Essentially, what it is is the best parts of that YouTube
Live show every week.
There's also a newsletter that you can find at the end of
as well. You can find that information at the end of this
course. Definitely check out all of this stuff.
A little bit at the beginning.
Maybe you just want to get started, and that's fine.
Just remember to come back later. Because I think one of
the biggest ways to retain this knowledge is to consume
it and use it in various ways, not just in watching the
videos. So, good luck and I'll see you in the course.