In the last lecture, I gave you the introduction of using

least privilege users in containers.

That's fancy words for saying we're swapping out the root

user for the built-in Node user that's not enabled

by default. I want to show you some of the things you'll

be dealing with when you do that.

When you enable that user, it affects pretty

much everything that you're going to be dealing with.

Particularly file and directory permissions,

particularly for write permissions because by default,

when you do everything in a Dockerfile, it's going to put

stuff in there as root, and root has access to everything.

It can read, write, everything. But once you start running

as Node user, weird little things can crop

up that you didn't have to worry about before.

Couple of those things would include write permissions in

the directories in the container in case your Node app

expects to have write permissions.

It might be harder for you to do npm installs.

You might get access denied on occasions because of certain

permission setups.

Then when you bind mount for local development, especially

if you're on Mac or Windows, those bind mounts might show

up as root as well.

Then that's a problem because your Node user can't

do anything on those folders with permissions

for root only.

Here's a couple of tips that will help you get through all

that. First, it would definitely help you to brush up

on your Linux file and directory permissions.

Specifically, the chown and chmod commands

because you'll be using those to solve some of these

problems. There are also Docker commands

that will help us along the way.

First, I had this happy sample app here.

I'm in the user node directory,

if you're following along in the course repo.

In here, I have a Dockerfile.

Let me just pull that up.

This is fairly standard.

This was a very basic example because

even the basic examples, when it comes to permissions, are

going to have roughly the same issues as you would in a

more complicated example.

Normally, I could just go in here and I would pick a line

and say, well let's do it down here.

Let's do it at the very bottom. User node.

If I do that, that means that any

commands after that that are one of the three.

There's the run command, the entry point and the cmd.

If any of those three come after this line, they will

be using the Node user to execute those things instead

of the root user. But everything else will still

be acting as root.

That can be a little bit confusing especially if you're not

used to those three. Make sure you remember that those

three are the limit. Those are the only ones that will work

as a Node user.

If I exit this,

and I do a docker build, I'll just call

this user node.

Everything works fine. In fact, my Node app will

run because everything in there

has read access, by default.

But if I go check out the permissions in there with a

docker exec here, I can see that everything

is not like I would expect it.

If I do a docker run

into that user node,

and get bash. If I do a ls

al in here, you'll see that everything has the label root.

If I go up a directory.

Because I'm setting the Node modules in a directory higher,

you'll notice that that's also root as well.

This means that my app will run and it

will work as the Node user, but if it expects to write

anything anywhere in these file paths, it's going to have a

problem. If I try to do npm install while

doing local development as the Node user, this

will have a problem because I won't have any write

permissions.

Let's back out.

If I jump back into that Dockerfile,

you might be tempted to take this user directive and move

it all the way up. Just move it all the way to the very

top. That way, everything is consistent.

Let's try that one. Do a build again.

You'll see that I actually had a build failure.

This build failure was because npm install

didn't have the permissions it needed on the directory

because all those directories were created as

root. Remember the workdir command is not one of the three.

So, workdir is going to create the directory as root

unfortunately. And then npm install doesn't have any

permissions to do anything.

One of the ways I get around that is with the example in

the last lecture. I manually create directories, then I

manually assign permissions as root.

Then after that, I change to the user node.

Let's try that.

I'm going to move this down to where I need it to be,

right before the run command.

Then right above it, I can add another run command

to do a mkdir on the app directory that I'll need later.

Then I'm going to change the owner recursively

in this directory and then any directories below it to

node, group node.

So, it will be user node, group node.

The reason I'm putting this here is because if

I tried to do it all in one line, with this run below

it and I try to be optimized with it, the problem

there is that it will be acting, and that run line on line

10, as the user node, which doesn't

have permissions to create directories.

So, then that mkdir will fail, and you can see the problem.

There's a little bit of an ordering problem here and

basically this will work.

I make the directory, change the permissions.

I then change to user node and then I can run

my npm stuff as that user.

Let's try one last time.

Great. We built successfully and if we run it, it should

be fine for the simple app that doesn't really need a lot

of special permissions. Of course, your apps may be

different. You may be doing user uploads, or

reading and writing files in various places, so make sure

you do the chown on those as well.

The next thing is you need to make sure that when you copy

in files, that they're also the user node,

just case that's what Node expects.

A lot of apps with Node, in particular, it won't have that

problem. That's not true of all apps, and so this is sort

of a standard that I adhere to even though it maybe isn't

required with your particular app.

I'll jump back in that Dockerfile and on

this copy line, I will add in the chown

node node like so.

That will behave as you would expect.

You also might do that same thing on the copy line for the

package JSON.

It kind of just depends on your development workflow and

whether you're going to need to edit those files in the

container later on.

But, even if you have problems with that later

with Docker Compose, luckily Docker Compose to the rescue.

You can do Docker Compose exec commands

as specific users.

Like I said before, by default, once you've changed

the user to Node, any exec commands

after you start the containers will also be Node.

Simply doing a -u root here

will get you into the container as root in case need to do

something like a package manager command or an npm

install globally.

Hopefully that will get you through the majority of least

privilege user problems that you might experience.

And I hope you stick with it even if you hit permissions

roadblocks because every problem that I've experienced is

solvable through changing permissions and working with

Docker commands.

I really do think it's a great practice to always have

your images using the Node user.

