One of the things that will help you look like a pro when

building out your Node files, and is generally also

important just for sanity, is to make sure your images

are efficient. That means efficient in terms

of smaller space when it's possible.

But, also in terms of building speed.

Because you don't want to rebuild this thing dozens,

hundreds, maybe even thousands of times, over the lifetime

of this image, on your machine or on a build server, and it

be slow for no, good reason.

We want to go through some steps here that may

affect build speed and size, and then just general quality

of efficiency in terms of making sure you don't have

redundant lines or anything like that.

The first one I want to talk about is the from image.

We just covered that, but you can see in the sample-02

that we were using before, that the first line there is

defined as node:10 alpine.

So, we're at least pinning it to the 10 version.

If I was building this app in Node, I would probably start

with 10. Then as I got closer to production, I would start

hard coding it to a patch release to make sure my app

worked as expected.

But for now, I'm just going to start with 10.

I'm choosing Alpine out-of-the-gate with this newer image

just to make sure that I get the smallest image possible.

The times you're going to have problems with Alpine are

usually going to be related to Legacy, large Node apps

that you're trying to get into a container image and

maybe they have some things that don't quite work yet with

APK, the Alpine Package Manager.

Anyway, let's move on to the next one here.

That's the ordering of lines.

Line order matters because as you remember probably

from your early days of Docker training, that Docker

builds naturally go from top to bottom.

So, each line is executed as a new layer in that

image. If you have layers

that don't change very often, but they're at the bottom of

the file, then you will end up with those layers being

built over and over again for no good reason because of

cache busting. If you're not familiar with cache busting,

that's the term we use whenever you get to a line in the

Dockerfile that has changed.

Either the files that have to be copied in are changed, or

that actual line of the Dockerfile itself has changed.

Whenever that event happens, that line, and any

other lines below it, will have been busted and have to be

rebuilt. That's normal, but we don't

want it to happen if we can avoid it.

In this case, you'll see that I actually have the expose

line, line 3 here, up higher in the

Dockerfile. That is not what you see normally in online

default samples.

But, if you think about it, it's never going to change,

really, if your app is always running on the same port,

then it's likely going to be changed once or twice, maybe,

in the entire lifetime of the image.

So, put that up top so that that line doesn't have to run

near the bottom every time.

Next, whenever I'm looking at a Dockerfile for Node,

I'm always expecting to see at least two copy lines.

The first one is actually something that you don't

see in this file. I deliberately avoided it so that we

could have the situation where we want to talk about it.

That is, you will notice a mistake here.

It's really not something that will prevent this

image from building, but it's a huge inefficiency in

that I'm copying in all the source files before

npm install.

Which means, any time a source file changed, which is

all the time you're working on your app, it will then bust

the run line for npm install and have to rerun

that line every single time it copies in files.

We definitely don't want that.

So, what you will normally see in Node is we will first

have a copy line that copies in just the package JSON

and the package lock JSON.

Then we run npm install.

Then we copy in ..

which means everything from the host directory

to everything in the current working directory of the

image. That's going to be normally run after

npm install. That saves us a huge amount of time.

Even with the modern efficiencies of npm and yarn

in their latest releases, they're still something that is

going to take a while, especially in a larger app, they

could take minutes. We want to keep that to

a minimum and only rerun npm install when

we have to because of a package change.

So, we want to change this.

In your sample directory, you can open up this Dockerfile,

sample -02, and you're going to move

this copy line down

underneath the run.

And the spaces, by the way, are not required.

I'm just doing them for easier reading.

And then we're going to add a copy line up top here

to copy the package JSON and the package lock.

Two things I want to note here.

There's a trick here that the community actually taught me

that you can put an asterisk at the end of the package

lock file in case it doesn't exist.

Dockerfiles will treat this as a copy

if it's there, but don't fail if it's not.

If you've ever tried to be literal about a copy command, if

the file doesn't exist in the host, it

will fail the build unless the file exists.

So, it creates a problem for lock files if you haven't

really run npm install yet and haven't created your

lock file, because that's auto generated.

In a lot of cases, you're going to create a new app

on the host and then you're going to run all the commands,

like npm install, in the container.

So, you need to be able to get the package file in there

somehow.

The way we get around this here is we put this asterisk,

which means, copy it if it's there, but don't if

it's not. The last part is we're going to be literal about

where we're copying it to just to be very specific.

We're saying, copy it into the current working directory,

which you can see in the line above it.

That way, we know exactly where these files are going and

not accidently put them somewhere else.

Again, I always look for the two, different copy commands

in the file at a minimum.

The next little tip is about package managers at the

host level. So, not necessarily your npm package manager.

I'll be honest, this isn't as big an issue for us Node

people because we don't necessarily always have

to run apt-get installs, or yum, or

APK, the Alpine Package Manager.

But if you do, realize that you need to put them

up high in the file, above any copying in of package

files preferably.

And you need to pin the versions on them, like I always

recommend anyone do for any package manager.

Always pin versions.

We won't talk about that here in this course because it's

not a Docker specific thing.

But if you're curious, you can always search your package

manager of choice and just search Google for pinning,

and you'll usually come up with some really good

recommendations on the easy way to pin those files.

And make sure you get the specific versions of your

dependencies, as you do with everything else, right.

Your code is versioned.

Your Node version at the top is there.

Your package versions are here, locked in the JSON file.

So, why not pin your APK or

apt-get package manager.

The point I want to make there is something that people

don't maybe realize about an apt-get or a another package

manager. That is if I do hear a run

apt-get update.

You'll see this in a very common way, apt-get install,

yada yada. Let's just say cURL.

That wouldn't work here in my Alpine image, but if it was

on a Debian based image, I would be able to do this.

What you might see people do later is then they install

something else later. Maybe they do a run apt-get

install something else, okay.

This you would never want to do, well, for a few reasons.

One is it's much more efficient to have all that stuff

installed at the top of the file at once.

The second, and major issue here, is that caching

will work against us.

The cache can sometimes actually be bad

for us. In that case, what's happening here is the apt-get

update is only going to be run when this

line is cache busted.

Which means later, if we copy our package

file in, and we change some things, and then we run the

apt-get, it will technically be installing something from

an old version of the apt-get

update because that line was not busted.

So ,that's why you always see in all the official images

where you get apt-get update, apt-get install, and then the

cleanup is all one, large run line,

so that that all happens in the same layer of the image.

Again, lucky for us, in a lot of Node apps, you won't even

need a package manager outside of npm or yarn.

So, yea for you if you're that lucky.

For the rest of us, just be sure to run it all at once at

the top of the file.