Now that we've covered lots of stuff in this section,

let's have our first assignment.

This one is going to be you building a Dockerfile from scratch.

So, it's going to test your knowledge,

a little bit, about what you remember from the previous lectures.

If you look in the assignment Dockerfile directory,

you'll see a mostly empty Dockerfile in there.

It's got basically the Docker commands,

the run, the copy,

the cmd, the from,

those things, but the rest of it's blank.

So, I want you to kind of work at what you think that all needs to

be based on the lectures you've taken in this section.

So expect to have this be an iterative

process where you're building,

and maybe it doesn't work right away the first time.

Maybe you try again, and then it fails,

or maybe it doesn't work the way you expect.

You definitely want to run this image to make sure it runs properly

and successfully launches the sample app that's in

that directory. That simple app,

by the way, is a Happy app.

It's just an API builder for JavaScript.

It should just run out-of-the-box with that app,

that js, you can look in the package file for any more info you need

on what to run.

This would be a great example of a real-world

scenario of taking an app that you're...someone

in your team has given you and you're playing the role of the DevOps person,

and they're saying hey, make an image for this.

This app that we already have.

This happens to me all the time.

It's a very common practice in DevOps where you're taking

apps and migrating them in the containers.

We call that a container image migration.

So, your first step is usually learning about the app

and then getting the Dockerfile to work so that it builds

and runs properly,

and that it's doing things like running on the right port.

In this case, expect to have to look at the

app.js file. Expect to look at the package JSON file.

Look for the port you're gonna need,

and stuff like that. Some other things to keep in mind is that you

should start with Node 10.15.

That's what I've tested this on.

Expect to start

with that on your from image

and you're going to be using Alpine there.

Look up the right image name.

Like you previously learned,

this is a legacy app that doesn't properly handle shutdown so you're

going to need to install

and then run with tini.

In my previous lectures,

you saw me using an entry point script to launch tini,

and then Node runs in the cmd below

that. That's what I've set up this Dockerfile for,

so hopefully you can figure that out.

Then also remember my tips around copying in your package

JSON in your logfiles first.

Then doing the npm install

and the cleanup. Then copying in all of your files

after that. So, you're going to follow that same practice here again.

The Dockerfile kind of hints at that a little bit.

Once you think you've got it running,

or if you get stuck,

check out my answer video as I walk through it step-by-step,

explaining how I do it.

Again, it may be a little bit different than yours,

but if you get the same goals out of it

and it does work properly,

then there might be slight variances between your Dockerfile

and mine. Have fun.

