For this next assignment in this section,

I want you to experience some of the bad

and good shutdown stuff

with Node. We're going to actually build this

Dockerfile and do it in different ways,

just like I showed you in the previous lectures for the different shutdown options,

so that you can see how it reacts,

how it behaves and have some real-world understanding

of what's really going on there.

We're using the assignment answer file,

your Dockerfile, from this previous assignment.

Make sure you've done that assignment first because we're going to

use the assignment Dockerfile directory.

You're going to take that Dockerfile

and you'll change it,

and build it, and then run it so that we can experience

the three, different options that I previously talked about in

the shutdown lectures.

First up, if you've completed the previous assignment,

you then have tini in the Dockerfile so it's added into

the container, and you're running it through the entry point.

So, that should be good, right. You'll be able to build that new image

and run it as a container, just like you did in the previous assignment

without any changes, and it should exhibit this kind of behavior.

If you're on Windows,

realize that when you control c,

it's not sending a termination

or stop signal. It's actually doing a detach signal.

That's just because on Windows,

that control c sends different signals.

It's a Windows thing. It's not related to Docker in any way.

It really just detaches the running container.

So, you're going to see a different experience on Windows.

But if you're on Mac and Windows, I want you to try the control c,

then start up the container again

and try the docker stop.

If you're on Windows, you're going to only be able to do a docker stop.

The reason I want you to do both of these,

especially if you're on Mac and Linux,

because the Control c

and the docker stop are different signals.

They actually do different things,

so I want to make sure that you see both sides of it.

In all those cases,

the app should stop. It just so happens that we can't see the app

shutting down properly inside it because it's not really...it's not really

waiting for connections to end

and properly, gracefully shutting down.

Remember we're going to need code for that.

So once you've played around with that tini inside there,

then take out the entry point command in the Dockerfile.

Build it again

and run it just like you did before.

Then Control c,

if you're on Mac and Windows.

Do a docker stop if you're on either one of them.

Like try both of those.

You should see where the app doesn't respond right away

and it maybe takes 10 seconds, and that is the termination

happening. That's basically showing that the signals aren't getting captured.

Docker is not listening and so it's waiting 10 seconds

and then finally shutting it down.

Lastly here, I want you to imagine if you're in a

Dockerfile that you can't edit, or it's an image that you've already downloaded,

and you have to do the --init inside your

docker run command.

Which, in this case,

sure, it's the same thing as what we did earlier where we put

tini in the Dockerfile.

But maybe you have a case where you can't modify the image

and you have to shove in the tini at runtime.

So, I want you to experience that as well.

You're going to run with a --init,

and you're going to do a Control c on Mac

and Windows. And then on every OS,

also do a docker stop.

So we see how both of those behave.

For a bonus on this assignment,

if you wanted to get into actual code,

you could take my sample graceful shutdown code

from the sample graceful shutdown

directory. That's

sample-graceful-shutdown directory. You can bring that in your app.

You can actually plug that into the app.js.

This requires, you know,

to understand the JavaScript obviously a little bit more.

Because this course isn't necessarily about JavaScript heavily,

but you should be able to figure that out if you have some background in Node.

See how that behaves because when you use that code,

you're going to Control c

and you're going to do a docker stop, and it will capture each one of those

shutdown signals separately

and then give you a different exit.

Sort of echo to the console.

You'll know that it's capturing the correct signal.

Of course if you have any questions,

or if you just want to see me walk through this assignment,

jump to the next lecture as I do this the same way you should.

