Hopefully you've spent some time working through the

assignment, and you completed all of the

objectives, the requirements and the outcomes.

I want to do the same thing you did.

Of course, like always, this is a little bit of an art

form, so things might be slightly different.

If you achieve the outcomes, then you finish

the assignment, whether or not you did it exactly like I

did, it's totally fine.

Like most things in computers, there's more than one way to

do it. Here I go.

I'm in the assignment-mta directory.

I can see here that they've given me this application.

It's got a readme that I'm going to check out in a second.

It's got a single index JavaScript file.

It's got this in and out directory, a logs directory, and

Node modules, and it's got the package file, right.

So, I want to open up my Visual Studio code

and go through these real quick.

In the readme,

I've got some things they sent me, you know, information

in here about what it does.

It pulls the things out of the in folder and then it

changes them to a charcoal, or chalk, looking

image, and then spits them in the out folder.

It logs to two files in a directory,

called the logs, which I definitely am going to have to

change. It requires Node 8.

No problem. We can do that with Docker.

We can change the Node version real easy.

It needs to have GraphicsMagick installed

on the server, which is an interesting requirement.

Obviously, there's other options in Node that you can not

have to require other components outside of npm

to do image manipulation, but I wanted to give you a

real-world scenario of a Legacy app in this case.

It requires an apt get install of GraphicsMagick.

In this case, I'm going to choose the default

Node Debian image.

I'm going to do that because I need GraphicsMagick

and instead of going and trying to find that in an Alpine

image and see if I can find out how to download and install

it in Alpine, I'm just going to stick to what this

team has already been using in the past because they've

clearly been using apt get, which is a Ubuntu or

Debian type of install.

So, don't necessarily need to change that.

A lot of times with MTA apps.

I don't want to upset the wheel cart too much and

completely change everything in their workflow.

I like to tell the developers, hey look, no it's running on

the same OS distribution, or similar, than what you

were using in the past so hey, no big deal.

I know I need to create a couple files, so let me just do

that first.

Do the Dockerfile

and the .ignore file.

dockerignore.

All right. In the requirements, it listed directories that

I do not want in the image.

Let me just go ahead and list those here so I know I

definitely don't want the in, the out,

the logs and

the Node modules.

We talked about in an earlier lecture, other things that

you can put in this file, but I'm not going to focus on

that.

I just want to do exactly what the requirements gave me.

That will ensure that those files never end up in the image

because if I go poking around, I'll notice that there's

already files in the in directory, and I don't want those

accidentally stored in the image for no reason and create

bloat. The idea here is this application is always designed

to run with bind mounts so that it's always pulling stuff

off the host, not from the image itself.

All right. Let me go over to Dockerfile and we'll start

there.

I can do a

from node:8. I might try a slim here.

I could go look at Alpine, but each one of those would take

more work and that's not necessarily what I'm required to

do. It's sort of an upgrade, a bonus if you wanted to do

that on your own to see if you could make that work.

If we tried a node slim here, we might be able to get

that to work, but a couple of things I'd have to check on.

One is Version 8, since it's old.

It may not even have a slim option on Docker Hub.

I'd have to just try downloading that to see if it works.

Secondly, I'd have to do an apt get install of

GraphicsMagick, which may require more of the tooling

that I need that's not in a slim image, right.

A slim image in Node is ideal when you really don't need

any outside packages and you don't need to build anything.

You're just able to download packages that don't need

binary builds. So I would need to test that and be a little

bit more thorough with what exactly it's doing

and working on.

I'm not going to do that here.

I'm just going to start with the simple image, node 8.

I know down here, somewhere, I need to do a cmd,

and I'm going to have to do some copying in some code.

I'm just going to do that. I'm going to do the typical

copy in of the package,

like this, like we've talked about before, packaging, and

then doing the run npm install

in here.

Then we'll have to do some clean up.

Obviously, do the npm install and then the clean

afterwards.

I have to go look that up because I don't always remember

it off the top of my head.

I believe it's something like npm

cache clean force.

We'll check that, see if my memory serves.

Then I know I need to put in here, somewhere, an

environment variable, because I know in the requirements,

it talked about charcoal factor.

So let me...so this is an interesting

debate. Like, where to put the env, right.

I could put it all at the top, and that

way, it would not need to be

added every time after copy.

Because if I put it down at the bottom, in theory, if it

changed, right, if I put it up here, I need to go change

the hard-coded value later.

Then it would require rebuilding the entire image

cache, and every line here would be busted, so that would

slow it down. I, maybe, put it down here at the bottom.

It would be for quick builds.

Don't really see any downside to that, so let me just do

env, and what did

the documentation say? It said charcoal factor.

It said to do a default of 0.1.

The way I know that is you

just poke your head in the index here.

It says here these are the variables for the application.

You know if you're a Node person, you know that this

probably should be a const nowadays, but back in the day,

we all wrote variables, so this is a Legacy app.

So, it would be a var, not a const.

No big deal, but I actually see that we have

a const down here.

So, clearly that must work.

Bad example, I suppose.

Anyway, getting back to this, ideally point...0.1

so I'm going to stick with as the default.

The idea here is that I can override it at any time, right.

At the command line with docker run, I can override this

environment variable at runtime, and then the app will run

with that environment variable. I have to put it in my JSON

syntax, node.

And the file, it looks like it needs to run as index.js.

So, I'm going to do that.

Let's see. I know that the requirements in the

readme said I have to do this apt get install

GraphicsMagick.

So, let me just copy that.

I'm going to just put that in a run line,

and you know this is one of those things where when you're

building Dockerfiles like this, run,

I'm not going to worry about cleaning things up and being

super tidy in my first run through because I

really just want to get it working first.

Then I can worry about all the little things around cleanup

and whatnot. I know I need to do an apt get update,

and then an apt get install.

All right. So, we're getting there.

I've got my dockerignore. I've got the basics of a

Dockerfile that I should be able to build.

I know I need do something about logging, so let me just go

check on the index file.

I see this is where the Winston logger is created and

I can see down here that this documentation and stuff

talks about a transport to a file.

I can see the file name here of error and combined.

So, we definitely don't want that in a Docker container,

right. We want to get the transport to be console.

In fact, that's a tip I gave you.

I'm just going to pull up my browser real quick.

I'm just gonna search Winston

node.js,

and I should find the

npm package, which you can go there and then I'll take you

to the GitHub repo.

If I get down here, I can see the home

page on GitHub, the repository over there, so

I get the repository.

In here, I can search for

that tip I gave you inside the slide, which is Winston

transports console.

It looks like here is an example

of how to use that.

I could possibly

just have these commented out.

Looks like I could try this, so I'm just going to give this

a shot by copying and pasting it in and

seeing if that helps.

I'm going to comment out these other two.

Comment those out.

Copy that in.

It looks like I have a redundant format here where I maybe

could pull that out, but I really just want to see if I can

get it working. You know, the formats up here, and

this is repeated down here.

I could probably get rid of that, or one of them, or

something. But really, I'm just trying to get it working,

right. I've changed that to make sure

that it's going to the console.

Let's do a build. I'm going to type docker

build. I'm just going to call it mta for now.

Let's see if it happens.

OK, so it looks like it built successfully on my first try,

which is amazing.

It got all the way through the different steps.

It copied in. It set the environment variable.

Let's just run it and see what

happens.

I got an error on the first run.

And that reminds me that I need to do volumes

for the in and out, right. If I go look at my outcomes,

one of the requirements is running with bind mounts on the

in and out directories, so I'd need to do it with multiple

bind mounts. Let me jump in the container real quick and

just see what's there.

This is something I like to do even when I don't run it.

I just want to run it with a Bash shell.

I could do a docker run -it mta

bash because this is a Debian image.

I could get in there, and I could simply look around,

right. The first thing you'll notice is that I'm in the

root of the image, and I've got all my

packages, and my Node modules, and everything is at the

root.

That's not what I wanted, so that means that I forgot a

line. Let me go back to the file

and change in the Dockerfile

up here, I need to add a workdir.

I can just do app here if I wanted to for now,

and put everything in there.

That'll keep it cleaner and help me understand what's going

on later so that it's not mixed in with the operating

system files, right. Let me exit out of that.

I'm just going to hit my up arrow, and rebuild.

Then

I'm going to run again with

the bash and the -it.

Now, you can see I'm in the app directory.

If I do an ls in there, I can see all my stuff.

I definitely see things, like I don't see the in and out

directories, which is fantastic.

That's the reason I got the error a while ago was the in

path doesn't exist inside here because I use the

dockerignore. So that's great.

The out isn't in here. Those GIFs aren't in here.

The Node modules does exist.

It's in here. If I just did an ls on node modules,

I could see that all my dependencies are there.

This looks like it's a legit app.

You could argue that maybe you don't want the readme and

the Dockerfile in there because they're not necessary in

the container. But, as I said in previous lectures, there's

pros and cons to that. Sometimes, I just like the

documentation, including the Dockerfile, to be in the image

so that I can look at them without having to go refer

to the history command. Stuff like that.

Let's do the docker run again and

this time, I'm going to bind mount the in and the out

directories. If I look at this directory I'm in, I have the

in and out's here. I really want to use them in the

container like the directions specified.

I would do a docker run, and I could use the short syntax

of -v. I could also use the longer syntax of --mount

if I wanted to. Let me just do the working directory

and then in.

Okay, so you see how I did that with the host directory.

Then app in

inside the container. And the way that I know that that's

where I need to put it in the container is when I look at

the app, it's setting in and out directory variables

that are just like the Node app on my host,

right. It expects those files to be in those directories in

there.

So, I put that there, and then I could do it again for the

out directory.

OK. I've got those two.

I don't need to worry about the logs because that should be

coming into the output of the console because we've changed

Winston at this point.

Then I should just be able to do mta.

Let's see what happens.

Oooh. We have the Winston info now coming out the console.

That's great.

I could use a docker logs command on this, later, and it

would see those logs.

All right. It looks like it has outputted those files,

so if I come up here and I look.

Yep. Indeed, those are there.

Let me open one up in my Chrome

browser.

See if I can't get this over here and then drag

one. That's kind of the easiest way for me to do that.

There we go.

That was one of our outcomes.

We wanted these images to look like...and if you were

just curious, you could actually go back and open up the

originals, and they look like the original giffys from a

previous lecture. You'll notice this giffy's

got nice, thin lines.

If I did that same docker run command, but then I did

a --env, and we

typed in that charcoal factor.

The default was 0.1.

If I changed it to 10.

If I bothered reading the documentation of the

GraphicsMagick, I'd learn that that really just thickens

the lines, but that's not necessarily part of this lecture.

We just needed to change it and get a difference.

So, this will rerun it.

It will take the same files and it will overwrite the files

that I'm running.

All right. Let me go back and check those

files again. Oh, and look it's different.

It's got thicker lines, and it did basically what we

expected. We changed the environment variable so when the

application ran, Node pulled that in and it caught

that environment variable. So, great.

If you look at our outcomes, we have the first one,

which was the in and the out directories being bind mounted

in so that it changes them and pulls those in at runtime,

and then spits them back out to the host, right.

That was one of the outcomes.

Second one was that if we change the environment variable

at runtime, does it change the output of the image?

And that's working here, so that's the second one.

No GIFs, or JIFS, depending on how you sit with

that camp.

GIFs or JIFs.

None of those files are in the image and if you remember,

we looked around in there and there and there's none of

those in that image. There's no directories, in fact, of

the in and the out because of our dockerignore.

The fourth one was Docker logs shows Winston output.

Because I'm running this command and it's quitting, I'm not

naming this, so I could run it as a name,

or I could just do a docker ps -l

which shows me the last container that ran.

That's a little tip. That -l would give me that.

So, then I could do a docker logs a11.

There we go.

I'm seeing the log output which means that Winston did what

I hoped it would do.

From here, you could do all sorts of stuff, right.

You could maybe set the other variables to environment

variables so that they could change in the Dockerfile if

you needed them. Not sure that's really necessary.

You could go into the file and clean up after

you did the apt get install.

That's definitely a way, like we talked in previous

sections, to make the image smaller.

You could try going to Alpine or into Node slim

to see if you can strength the image up that way.

There's lots of things you can do here, right.

You could go in and maybe clean up that Winston line to see

the redundancy that we saw in there with the Winston

logger setup.

You can even change, with Winston,

the format of the logs coming out and change them into

what you need, maybe on your logging system through Docker.

I don't actually do that, though, because Docker itself can

change the log output it provides to JSON

and other file formats with Docker logging drivers.

So, I don't really need to do that in Winston.

I always like just the application itself to just pump out

generic logging, and I can do the rest in Docker.

I hope you've enjoyed this assignment and

it made sense to you.

If you had a stumbling block, don't worry, because we

wanted to really focus on the Docker part of this, not so

much the Node stuff.

This is definitely something I'm doing all the time

when there are Node apps, or really any other app, that

needs to migrate, it's usually changing environment

variables. That's a big thing. Making sure that the app

works. It's making sure the dependencies for

the app are properly done in the Dockerfile.

Making sure the dockerignore is set up so that nothing gets

in there that shouldn't be, and that the app is flexible

enough with the right base image that it can run anywhere.

These are things that I'm doing always in projects and

you'll probably do those as well.

