The next thing you're going to need to worry about when

you've got your app finally running in Docker Compose and

everything worked out in your Dockerfile, is to make sure

that your Compose file is set up for file monitoring.

I am a fan of nodemon, which has been around for a long

time in the Node space.

And, nodemon should work in most situations.

There's obviously lots of other tools out there, like

Webpack DevServer and various others that all

set up servers and do monitoring of files.

But, this example is really just going to be focused on

nodemon because it has all the features that I really see

people needing. If you've been using nodemon

a while, then you're probably thinking, maybe I should

have my nodemon watching Docker Compose and restarting

Docker Compose. But, that actually adds a little extra time

to every restart. Because Docker stopping a container,

creating a new one in Docker Compose everytime files

change, that extra couple of hundred milliseconds can

really add up. So, what we're going to do is we're going to

have Docker Compose running nodemon inside it.

We're going to use Docker Compose's YAML to override

the cmd from our Dockerfile.

This won't be changed in the Dockerfile's command.

This will be overriding it with the Docker Compose YAML

command to run nodemon in Node's place.

If you're developing on Windows,

the bad news here is that you need to enable polling on any

of these solutions. Because the file events

on the native file system of your host, in Windows, won't

be sent over the wire of the file networking in

order to get to that Samba share that's running in that

Linux VM. This doesn't matter if you're running Docker

Desktop or Toolbox. Both of those are going to require you

to enable the polling feature.

In some tools, it might be called legacy mode.

Others, it might be called polling, or polling mode.

Really what it is is the Docker Compose just

searching the files that you asked it to to see if they've

changed recently. It's a little more taxing on a system.

It's, in theory, a little bit slower than file I/O events

like we get on Mac and Linux.

In real-world scenarios, with a reasonable set of files,

I don't notice much difference at all.

If you get really large projects, the polling may

affect performance and actually cause a little bit of delay

between saving a file and it noticing the file change.

But, I don't see a lot of complaints in the community about

that yet. Your mileage may vary.

If you have other things you need to do when you're writing

code on your host, maybe you're using minification

tools. Maybe you're doing Sass

CSS. Maybe you're doing TypeScript and you need TypeScript

to be compiled into JavaScript.

All these kind of tools can be run on a nodemon

restart. So, any time you save a file, nodemon would

restart, and you can use a nodemon YAML to configure

those various other tools.

I'm sure there's plenty of examples for each of those tools

in nodemon, given nodemon's popularity.

You can just find those examples online for whatever tools

you need to run.

I'm going to walk you through an example of how I would

use nodemon in a standard environment.

This is an Express example similar to ones we've

used in the past in these lectures.

You can see this example inside the sample nodemon

directory of the course repo.

In here, I have a standard Dockerfile, a sort of a standard

Docker Compose and a package JSON.

I have not yet put nodemon in here to make it work

on my local machine. To get nodemon fully set up on this

system, we will need to do three things.

We're not, again, installing nodemon on the host.

We're installing it inside the container as a dev

dependency. That's kind of how I like to do it.

You might have a preference, and you might see examples

online, where you would add a line to your Dockerfile here.

Just do a run somewhere up top and do an npm install

global of nodemon.

You can certainly do that, and that can be a part of your

Dockerfile. I don't prefer to do it that way just because

I've been around Node a while and I'm used to controlling

nodemon, as well as the other development tools, as a part

of my dev dependencies in my package JSON with npm.

I prefer to control it that way and to install it with my

dependencies there, than doing it in the Dockerfile as a

global install.

There's really no rhyme or reason for either one.

It just depends on which one you want to track the nodemon

version and to worry about that.

You're probably going to have other development

dependencies.

You're going to have to deal with those anyway in the

package JSON. So, you might as well just lump them all

together because ideally, we don't want nodemon in our

production image. We really only want it installed when

we're working locally.

The first thing I want to do here is install nodemon into

my package JSON. I can use docker compose run to do that.

The name of my service here is express.

Then I can do an npm install of nodemon here.

I want to do a --save dev just

like you would in a normal npm environment to save

it automatically to the package JSON.

As that's running, you can see that my dev dependencies has

been updated with the nodemon package.

Now, I need to have my Docker Compose automatically run

it instead of the Node command when I'm

running Docker Compose.

Instead of typing nodemon directly here, we're going to

have to give it a full path name here because we did not

install nodemon globally.

That's one of the advantages of doing global is that npm

will automatically set up a global link

so that it's accessible from anywhere.

But in our case, I just need to provide the full path.

Then the name of our express starter file.

You'll notice, by the way, that I have my environment set

to node environment development.

That's key because when I run Node, and

I run the npm commands inside my Docker Compose

environment, it needs to be set for development mode so

that those dev dependencies are installed

when I do something like npm install.

If you remember, back in the Dockerfile, the default is

production, which won't install those dev dependencies, by

default, in the image.

So, we are simply going to override that, as well, with the

Docker Compose. One little helper tidbit

here is that if I want to run one-off nodemon commands just

inside the package, or any other standard dev tool,

it's going to be inside my apps Node modules, and not in

the global Node modules, then I need to update

my environment variable for my path.

It's a simple one liner you can put in all your

Dockerfiles. You just do an env path here to override

the path environment variable, with

the bin directory inside your apps Node modules.

Then you just add that to the path variable so

it will see it.

Then once that's done, any time I

rebuild and run this image, I will then

be able to run any of the tools that I have installed as

dev dependencies without having to specify their full path.

I could also do this in the Docker Compose, but I tend to

do this one in a Dockerfile so that it's just easy

regardless of where I'm running the image.

Lastly, I want to do a docker compose build just to make

sure that my image has all the changes I need in it.

Now, we can do a docker compose up, and instead of running

Node, this will run nodemon.

You'll notice over in our Docker Compose,

I did the bind mount.

If you remember from a previous lecture on bind mounting, I

use the simple option.

The scenario one, where I'm simply bind mounting the

entire app and its Node modules to the host.

So, all of those Node modules are stored in the host, and

it's a simple example here.

Now that I've got this set up, I should be able to go in

and change something in my app.

Even just a comment here.

Once I save this file, we'll see

that nodemon restarted my app.

Hopefully, this works for you.

It's not a whole lot more complicated that for nodemon.

It just kind of works that way.

As long as you get it installed and found in your path, you

should be good to go.

