In the last lecture, we talked about the dependencies and

startup order in your Compose file, and how you need to

work with that to make sure that your multi-service

application goes well when you're local developing.

Now, I want to get into the specifics on the depends on

healthchecks. If you haven't heard of healthchecks, they're

a built-in Docker feature that you can put in Dockerfiles,

Compose files, Kubernetes deployment files,

Swarm stack files.

Basically, you can put them everywhere. You can put them in

at the command line even.

They're just little tests that ensure that the

container is available and ready.

Normally, we don't worry about that stuff in local

development, but they can be very handy for

making sure that your backend database, or API

containers on your local system, are ready to go before

other containers start.

This gets you away from the whole restart cycle of Node

apps because your database is starting up.

I really like to use these when I'm local and

I especially like the convenience of them ensuring that

everything starts in the proper order.

If we look at the depends on feature of the Compose file,

it doesn't have anything extra in terms of features

in the V3 of Compose.

We have to go back and use the V2, which I've stressed

throughout this course, as the appropriate version for

local development right now.

That depends on feature in the V2 gets an extra

bonus for it can depend on the healthcheck before

it starts other services that depend on that service.

This is the true wait for style, dependency

stuff that you might go searching Google for and find

people talking about creating scripts, and other types

of automation, to solve this problem.

But, it's already there. It's already solved in the

Compose. We just have to enable it.

I want to show you some quick, simple examples of how this

works. We'll look at a Web, a Mongo,

a Postgres and a MySQL example so that we see

how simple this can really be.

If you want to follow along, there's the depends on

directory inside the course repo where I have two, simple

examples. The first one is a standard Docker Compose YAML

file. It has the old style, or what I

would consider incomplete depends on example.

This example is all over the Internet and in the

documentation where it solves two of the three problems

that I discussed in the previous lecture.

It shows relationships so that when I do a docker compose

up node for the Node service, it will first start

the DB. It will not wait for the DB to be healthy

and ready for connections, though, because we need the

healthcheck.

It also solves the problem of DNS, so when the Node

service comes up and it needs to resolve the DNS for

database, the database container has at least been started

at that point, and it will not fail DNS resolution.

Let's go to the more complete example which is what I would

encourage you to use.

This example is using the full healthcheck

feature set of depends on that we got in Version 2.3,

or newer, but you also have to be less than Version

3.

Remember, Version 3 of the Compose file format is designed

for orchestration where we don't really get to control

startup order across multiple servers.

So, this example doesn't make sense there which is why this

feature really only exists in Version 2.

You see that the standard depends on exists here.

This would be maybe a frontend with an API backend,

and in the API depends on databases.

So, you've got multi-tiered dependencies.

You see here that the API has to have this line,

condition service healthy.

So underneath every depends on statement, for each thing

you depend on, you have to add this extra line.

Then on the thing you're depending on, you've got to put in

the healthcheck. So, for the API, it's a very simple

web API, so I might just do a simple cURL command here.

Note, that cURL may not be in all of your apps by

default. It's in the Alpine image, but it may not

be in all images, so make sure that your image

has cURL in it or the tests will always fail.

Then you'll see I have three dependencies for this API.

The Postgres, Mongo and MySQL. Hopefully,

your database and API situation isn't requiring

all three database types.

But, really this is here just for me to show you the

example of commands.

If you scroll down here, you see that I'm showing a very

simple test command for each one.

The Postgres one uses a built-in utility to simply

say, are you ready and it will succeed,

or fail, with an exit code.

The Mongo does the same one.

It's a little bit longer where it actually uses the Mongo

client. It sends a true JavaScript ping command

into a test database.

Then the MySQL one uses the MySQL admin utility, which

is bundled with the MySQL container image.

It does a ping on the localhost there.

All three of these, essentially, are the simplest

way for you to verify that the port is open and the

database can receive connections.

For production systems, obviously healthchecks would need

to be more complex.

You might also make more complicated ones that would ensure

that there were select statements in there to see if real

data exists. But, I don't know that that makes any sense

for just simple, local database dependency

stuff. These commands here solve my problems

so that when I start up Docker Compose, I never

get my Node app failing because it can't connect to the

database. Because it will wait.

Or more accurately, Compose will wait, to start

that Node app until the database starts returning a

successful healthcheck.

