Now you've seen me use a few editors in this course.

Visual Studio Code, as well as Vim.

Those are my sort of favorite editors.

There's lots of editors out there, right.

VS code tends to be an increasingly popular one

because it's free.

It's regularly updated, and it has tons of features,

especially for Node and JavaScript.

If you've not checked it out, definitely go check out

Visual Studio Code on Microsoft's website.

It runs on every platform. It actually runs the same

backend as ADAM, if you've ever used ADAM from GitHub.

It's really got more developer features

in mind. I'm not going to go too deep into all the features

of it, but I did want to highlight a couple of things, as

well as debugging and other things like TypeScript, that

might get in your way and complicate your setup if you

don't have some good guidance. I can tell you that I've

spent many hours trying to get all these tools to

work together. When you start talking about Docker, plus

Docker Compose, plus Visual Studio Code,

plus node debugging, plus TypeScript, plus

nodemon, you start to get this stack of tools that gets

a little crazy. So, I'm going to give you a quick little

sample of how a setup works that

I've used in this course. So, it would work well with the

setup and design of the way we're doing things in this

course. It's not going to solve every problem or work in

every scenario.

But, you might want to check it out, and the source files

will be in the repo.

In case you've not yet debugged code with

Node.js inside of Docker, the way you're going to do that

is like you would normally do with Node, because Node is

designed for TCP remote debugging out-of-the-box.

It's pretty cool. That just works well with Docker.

That means you can turn on the inspect, whether you're

doing that with Node or nodemon.

You can still just enable that and default port is 9229

in the later versions of Node that we've had the last few

years. That largely works out-of-the-box.

You can expect that to work with Visual Studio Code, Chrome

debugging, if you've ever used that.

Or, any of the other major editors and debuggers.

That stuff just kind of works.

Once you start getting into wanting to use something like

TypeScript, or other automated scripts

that run with nodemon every time you change a file, then

you would also like it to work with Docker Compose inside

of something like Visual Studio Code, that can be a little

tricky. There's, like a lot of things,

various ways you can do this.

You can have your Visual Studio Code, or

your other editor, set up the tasking it

needs to do, like TypeScript, maybe gulp, or

some other automation on your files.

You can have that set up in the tool of choice.

The GUI that is. Then you can decide

not to complex your setup in Docker.

Your nodemon can stay simple and can just run Node.

In this example I'll show in a minute, I'm choosing to

do all of that in Docker Compose with nodemon, mostly

because I want to be able to change editors and not lose

functionality. If I tie stuff specifically to

Visual Studio Code, that does make it really awesome

in Visual Studio Code, and it actually has some pretty cool

features around tasks, and running debug, and stuff like

that. But, I'm not always using Visual Studio Code.

I like to do it a little bit in Vim, and I

want that same functionality so that when I change a file,

for example TypeScript in Vim, I want nodemon

to see that, and then recompile and make the changes

itself. I'll give you plenty of resources on

this lecture so that you can go check out other materials

on how these things are set up. Because there's definitely

a lot of different ways and different combinations, and

we're all different in the way we like to develop and set

up our environments. So, check those out.

If you don't necessarily work the exact, same way that I'm

going to give you in this example.

If you check out, in the repo for this course, the

TypeScript directory, it's a sample default

Express app that isn't really there to do anything other

than just to give us a hello world, because that isn't the

focus here, right. We just need a running Node app to do

all the bells and whistles on.

Let's look at some of the files I have inside of

VS Code. You'll notice some normal files in here that you

would see in every project. I've got my package JSON.

I've got my nodemon, Dockerfile, Docker Compose.

That's all filled out. Dockerignore, gitignore.

That stuff's all in there.

I just have one sample file that is there as

the sample app for Express.

It's sitting in a source directory as TypeScript.

A couple of things to note.

The Dockerfile is set up in a multistage build

so that I get a production one, or sort of a base image at

the top. Then that flows into

other things, specifically a dev build.

Then it runs tsc for production build

only, because in development, I'm not going to run this

stuff by rebuilding, right.

You never want to have to rebuild an image just to get your

code to work in development.

You really want that stuff running real time in your

editor, and in our case, with nodemon.

This stuff down at the bottom is really just for

production. You'll see in the later sections of this course

where I talk more about getting your images designed for

production and getting all that set up properly.

So, that's not necessarily the point here, but I did want

to have that file here so that it will work as expected.

Because when I'm in the Docker Compose, I choose

a target and that gives me a target stage

for just local development, right.

Then the other stages I'm not using because they're really

just for production. This allows me to have that single

Dockerfile like we've seen in the past, in the beginning of

this course, when we talked about multistage builds.

I've got the debug port open, the default one of 9229.

Of course, you can always make this whatever you want on

your system.

I'm mounting my code as usual.

This is using the scenario one,

simple setup from the previous lecture that we talked about

different ways to bind mount.

In my package JSON, I had the dev dependencies like you'd

expect. In there are specific stuff for TypeScript

and for TypeScript to be able to work in Visual Studio Code

well. Especially the types here, at the top, that allows

VS Code to understand what's going on, and the functions

and stuff in my code.

Then, TypeScript down at the bottom so that I can have

that tsc command line tool to

compile the code in the JavaScript.

Then I've got ts node dev, which we'll see

in a minute, helps me run my code in a one liner.

If you're into TypeScript, and of course you can do all

this debug and setup stuff without TypeScript, it's just

I'm adding it on here to show how all these things work

together. I have at the top a simple include statement in

a ts config file. The rest of it is pretty much default

out-of-the-box.

Other than the fact that I include the source directory

where all of my TypeScript is going to be.

Then I set source map to true.

That's going to help with the debugging and

Visual Studio Code. You can see that information in the

resources for this lecture, and it tells you how to set all

this stuff up. A lot of the guides on the Internet will

give you that information.

Then the output directory.

That's where the JavaScript is going to be after TypeScript

is done. I'm using that standard dist as many

different repos will show you.

And away we go.

The next step up is to look at our

nodemon.

Instead of me just running nodemon with a bunch of options

on it at the command line, when I get a little more

complicated setup with nodemon, I like to have it in the

nodemon JSON. I've mentioned that before in other lectures.

In here, I'm having it watch the source

directory, ignoring files in case they're

there that are spec files. I'm not using them in this

project. The important line here is the exec line

where I'm running Node.

I'm enabling the debugger.

That's the inspect part. Make sure that when you're

enabling your debuggers, you're always putting in the four

zeros for the IP address because by default,

Node's inspector, like many other debuggers, will

not run by default on all interfaces.

They'll only run on localhost.

As you recall, inside your container, you

can't do that, right. Because localhost, in a container, is

just a container. Then the debugger won't work.

You won't be able to connect to it from your host machine.

At the end here, I'm doing a -r ts node register.

That gets me the feature set of ts node, which essentially.

automatically compiles my TypeScript

into JavaScript, and I tell it what the JavaScript

file that runs my app is, right.

So, that one little liner, you can actually find

some of that information on the nodemon page, as well as in

TypeScript examples on Microsoft's site, and other places

as well. Once you've got all that set up,

you're ready to enable debugging on your app.

If I just open up this simple little thing.

Of course in my case, I can go back to the command line and

do a docker compose up.

You can also have Visual Studio Code

set up all your Docker and Docker Compose stuff.

You can actually have it run different commands.

You can give it tasks.

That's a little bit beyond what I want to go through in

this course because that's really very specific to

Visual Studio Code. As you learn that tool, if you really

want to get heavy into sticking with that one tool and even

having your terminal window in that tool, that's fine.

It'll all work the way that you would expect with these

tools. I'm just going to run it here like usual, docker

compose up. You'll

see here that it's showing nodemon starting.

It starts Node.

It's got that extra little register on the end, and

it enables the debugger.

So, you see the debugger.

Then of course, my app is doing a console log telling you

that it's running on port 3000.

If we jumped in our browser, we would see it running on

port 3000 because that's the mapping I've done in Docker

Compose. If I jump back over to my editor and go

to debugging, I have set up a debugging

option here. This is mine that I've put in.

This will be a part of the repo.

If you don't have one yet, you can click on the little

widget. It will allow you to add configurations.

When you start out, it'll give you this, all by default,

except for two of these lines. I've added some comments in

for you. It'll ask you for the remote root.

That means the root inside of the container.

Whenever you add a configuration, at least right now in

2019 with Visual Studio Code, you can use

this Docker Attach to Node.

That's what I started with, right.

Because you're going to use Docker, and you're going to

attach to it rather than launch it.

The launch configurations mean Visual Studio Code will run

things for you. If you wanted to have Visual Studio Code

run Docker Compose for you, you can do that as well.

There's actually information on the

Visual Studio Code website that will show you how to do

that for the debugger.

I don't want to do that. I just want to run Docker Compose

myself. I'd rather have it in its own window, and

have them, you know, on my screen. But, you can totally do

whatever you want. All that stuff works in here.

You would add just extra options here.

The IntelliSense is really good for helping you figure out

these options. I add in restart true here because

when nodemon restarts Node every time I save a file,

I want the debugger to reconnect automatically.

Then lastly here, I have to set the outfiles.

If you don't set the outfiles, because I'm using TypeScript

here, I need to have my outfiles specified so it knows

where the JavaScript is going once it's compiled by

TypeScript. You've got to get to get that right.

That took me a little while to figure out that you just

need to point it to that folder.

Once you've done that, you can then go back over to your

debugger and hit play.

It will connect to the remote debugging port.

You'll know

that's good when there's an orange bar at the bottom.

You get your nice little debug window.

Then I can go and do things like set breakpoints.

When I go to the browser and refresh, it will properly

identify that breakpoint and stop me there.

Once you know that that is all working correctly, you'll

know that it will work, because this red dot will actually

stop the code whenever you get to that.

In this case, I'm stopping the root URL.

So, if I were to go there in my browser, it would stop

that and it would see it pop up here, and

it would identify correctly in this file.

If you don't have your TypeScript stuff set up right, and

paths right, you'll actually have it pop up a different

window that says a read-only version of the app.ts.That

usually means that you just don't have your paths quite

right for your source and distribution in the various

places. It can't quite figure out where the files

are and where they're going.

That can be a little tricky to do when you're dealing with

Docker with Visual Studio Code on top of it.

