Building a sweet Compose file.

That's really what this whole section was about.

It was lecture after lecture and granted, there was a lot

of lectures. So, sorry about all the lectures.

But, really they're all focused around the same thing:

making sure that you're getting all the best stuff out of

the Compose file for your Node.js setup.

This is the test for all that stuff.

I really wanted this to be one assignment instead of lots

of little assignments.

Because this one assignment is exactly what you're going to

be doing, on and off, when you're migrating your Node.js

apps into Docker, or even creating new apps in

Docker for Node.js.

This is exactly the same process you'll go through.

What I'm going to give you is Docker's popular voting

app demo. It's a distributed, multi-service

app, using databases and various languages

for different services.

One of those is a Node.js app.

It's the result website for a voting app.

You're going to be voting on dogs versus cats.

If you've been in my other courses, you may have seen that.

I use it often in my demos because it's an easy one to

understand. It's pretty to look at, and it's

got a lot of the potential problems that you might have in

a distributed app.

Imagine you're the Node.js developer.

You're getting this simple Compose file from the team.

It's got multiple other services unrelated

to your Node.js app but are needed in order for you to get

the full functionality, and for testing, right.

To just make sure the app works as you intended.

You're going to need to turn that Compose file into the

ultimate Compose file, like you learned all throughout this

section. Let me take you real quick through the files and

the readme before you get started.

If you go into the repo for this course and look

at the assignment, sweet compose directory, you'll

see the two files and then a subdirectory that

you need for this assignment.

The readme we'll go through in a second.

The Docker Compose is very similar to the one that comes

from the official result app from Docker.

Then the result is a directory full of the

Node.js app that you're going to need to set up as if

you're going to develop it locally.

If we just take a quick look at the Docker Compose file, it

comes very simple, right.

This is a great example of how you would maybe even

get Docker Compose, if you get one at all, for a new

project. It might come in with the very basics like this.

This is great because it comes out of a sample repo

where they show deploying it all the time, but there's a

lot missing from here. We don't have the depends on.

We don't have bind mounts for local development.

We're not opening ports for debugging.

There's all sorts of stuff here that's missing.

The only thing I think I've really done here is I've

changed the version from the Version 3 that it came as

from Docker, to Version 2.4.

So, that's really what I want you to stick with because

that's the latest Version of 2, and that will get you the

most development features.

You can go through here and it'll start up at top with the

Redis in the database for the data storage.

You've got the voting app, which is a website for voting

cats versus dogs.

Then you have the result app, which is the one you're going

to be working on.

It's set up for a port.

Of course, you can change that, but there's nothing there

that you need for development. It needs all the other dev

features. I'm hoping you'll stay away from the Dockerfile

because maybe someone else was creating that and you only

really have authority in this pretend scenario

to mess with the Docker Compose files. So, you're going to

need to focus on that for all of your setup and

to just kind of work with the code that you've got inside

the result app.

Then lastly, you have a worker app that just kind of runs

in the background. You have two networks that are already

set up for you and a volume for the database.

Really, the focus here is going to be on

the steps that I've given you in the readme.

If you go to the top of the readme, you

get sort of the basics of the story of why this is going to

go the way it is and a pretend narrative that you're the

Node.js developer in a team of people, and your

responsibility is just for the result app.

Then it goes through a list in no particular order, of

all the things I'd like you to do to this application

in the Compose file. It's whole purpose here is to set

up all the things you just learned throughout this section

in the Compose file to make it super awesome.

Then, down at the bottom, once you think you've done that,

are some valid testing things you can do.

That doesn't mean you're writing any code.

You shouldn't have to write any code, in fact, to get this

done. This is all really about configuration to make

the app work the best for local development and debugging.

So, don't worry if you have to go back and reference the

lectures and those videos from throughout this section.

It was a very large section so thanks for sticking with it.

Good job for getting here to the end.

I wanted to give this all in one, large assignment because

this is often how you'll get to do this in real-world

projects. You'll be given this file, in this setup, and

it may take you a day. It may take you 20 minutes.

It just really depends on how much time you have, and so

feel free to save these files in the middle and maybe

go inside the readme and check off each one that you've

done. That's kind of how you're going have to work

through it. You may not be able to do all of these things

in one sitting or certainly get them working.

The first time I did it, it definitely took me some time to

work through all the different steps.

Don't be afraid to go rewatch some of the videos

or even do some Internet searching before you watch my

assignment answers video coming up next.

