Now whether or not you have your own CI solution

for testing and continuous integration, you can

use Dockerfiles as a way to do testing.

You don't have to have a large, complicated CI

pipeline system to just run tests.

Dockerfiles are essentially their own build system, and so

you can throw these in.

Now with multistage, that even becomes easier because we

can make a special stage just for these tests.

If you're used to using npm to run your test, you can just

do that. Add a special stage, just for testing,

that is based on your development environment.

Because you want all those dev dependencies, like the dev

tools, right, for building and testing.

Then you want to put in run npm test.

That's as easy as it could be.

You could just do that. But, there's a lot more you could

do here.

You could also do linting inside of this special

stage. I would recommend you only run unit

tests inside the Dockerfile.

If you're talking about functional, or other types

of full-feature testing where you're going to need other

containers or other systems like databases to talk to,

that's not really good to run inside a Dockerfile

build because it's hard to get those other things started

and to then tell the Docker build how to get to those

things. That's more of a job for Docker Compose.

Also, don't make the test stage part of your default

stage workflow.

In other words, have it be a one-off stage that doesn't

run by default. It's not the last one in the list.

It's not one that's depended on by any other things

like production or dev.

So, that way it won't run unless you specifically want it

to run. When you're on your local machine and you want to

do these tests, just do a docker compose exec

or a docker compose run and do the commands that

way instead of trying to build this stage.

This special stage is really best for CI

or automated systems that are just needing to run through a

set of things to get them done before it completes the path

of the workflow. When you're just doing stuff locally, you

know what you want to run. You want to run npm test or you

want to run an npm test.

Something like that.

So, you're typically just going to run those one-offs on

your own and not rebuild the entire image just

to get a test done.

Let's take a look at a sample Dockerfile in the directory,

multistage test.

This example Dockerfile is based on the last

lecture where we talked about development stages, and

this is going to build on that.

So, this first stage is mostly the same.

You'll see that I added in the npm config list which we

talked about in the previous lectures.

I've added that it as a bonus in the first stage.

But, this first stage again, is really just a jumping off

stage the others will depend on.

Then when we scroll down here to stage 2, this is

specifically for development.

So, this would be called from my Docker Compose file.

This is the same one as we had in the last lecture.

In stage 3, this is where things start to get a little bit

different. We're now copying in the source code, but

this is sort of an intermediate stage.

It's not meant to be used directly by you

or any system. It is there simply to get the source

code in so that we have it as a jumping off point for

future stages.

In this next stage for stage 4, we're

starting from that source. So, that's that previous tiny

little stage. We're starting from there, and we're

going to use test. So, we've got to set the node env up

again, and the path for development, because we're not

depending on that dev

stage. We're actually skipping that dev stage for this

testing one, and we're starting from the source

code one, which started from the production one.

Then we're copying all the Node modules in

from the developer image in a manual copy line

so that we get both production and dev dependencies.

So, that's key that we do that.

Then we start to run our tests.

I'm doing an eslint here.

I'm also doing an npm test.

So, you might do several types of linting and testing on

your own. Like I said before, unit tests

are probably what you should be putting in here, not

functional tests, because this is really meant for

things that are just going to happen in this Dockerfile, in

isolation with the source code, not for things

that are going to be talking to databases or other API's

for full functionality stuff, right.

But, that's what you do with the cmd.

You override the cmd here so that if you want to

run this image that you just built for testing, it will

then run a full integration testing like

you do here. Maybe this is an imaginary npm run

that would do a different test command than it would

when it's running just unit tests a few lines earlier.

Then my last stage here is the production stage.

This is the one that will start from source, so it will

skip the test and the dev stages, and it will start

from source, and then just change the cmd to be what

we expect to do in production.

The key here is that my last stage is always my

production stage.

It's always the default. So, if you ever do a docker build

and you forget to target a specific stage, you'll

end up with a production-ready image that doesn't have a

bunch of the extra stuff in it.

I like to do it that way so that if anyone else is building

my images, and they don't realize that they have to specify

a special target, that it just works for them.

Also, if you're building, by default, on Docker Hub or

other places like that, they will, by

default, unless you specify a target, build all the way

through the file and then the last stage will be the end

result. So there, you would also want to make sure you have

this production-ready stage.

Just to remind you that as you're at the command line,

you're doing these Docker builds, you may or may not be

enabling BuildKit like we've talked about earlier in this

course, and it doesn't really matter here.

BuildKit does give you advantages here because if you

remember, these stages don't all go in consecutive

order. If you have BuildKit enabled,

then that will skip different stages of

the build process if it doesn't need them for this stage

you asked for.

If I did a docker build here and I just called

it test node, and I did just

this, right here.

This would skip the test, skip the dev and go all

the way through the bottom of the production image because

I didn't give it a target stage.

That's not what we want here. I would want to build the

test stage. I need to give it a target of test.

And when I do that, it's going to spit all that stuff out.

You'll see that it runs down here at the bottom on step 23,

that it's changing the int to an npm, the eslint,

but you will notice that it's caching.

That means that really what's happening is

I've already run this test for this

set of files on my system.

Technically, I don't need to run those again because

nothing's changed, so why do I need to rerun the tests?

But if you want to force the test or rerun anyway,

you could type in a --no cache.

What that'll do is it'll force it to build each

line again, just in case you maybe want to rerun

those tests for extra safety.

