Earlier in this course, we talked about healthchecks.

At that time, we were talking about it for local

development and to be aware around depends on

availability. That's not what I want to talk about here.

But, I do want to focus on healthchecks for production.

The first rule here is that you always want healthchecks.

Regardless of how you're using it, whether you're using it

in Docker, or Swarm, or Kubernetes, or

ECS, or something else, you want to have a

healthcheck possible for your application.

Here in this lecture, I just want to talk about

healthchecks in the Dockerfile for Node.js apps.

If you want to learn about larger healthcheck stuff, there

is certainly a lot of material out there.

If you check out my Swarm Mastery course, I talk about

Swarm healthchecks a lot in there.

Of course, Docker, Kubernetes, and all the others, all

have documentation that you can check out.

What if you put the healthcheck command in your

Dockerfile? What happens then on a server?

First, if you're just using regular Docker on a server,

that's just the Docker Engine where you'd be running Docker

run commands, or if using Docker Compose, which is

essentially the same thing.

They will technically run that healthcheck, but they're not

going to do anything about it.

They're not going to respond to a failed healthcheck.

So, they're not really that effective. They're not going to

be helpful in reacting to problems with your Node app.

If you're using Swarm, I always advise you have that

healthcheck in the Dockerfile.

That way, the operators who are operating your app,

maybe that's not you, can see exactly what you

expect for a healthcheck inside your application.

Remember, these healthchecks are running inside your

container. The Docker Engine is actually executing the

cmd of that healthcheck inside your running container.

So, you're going to need to have the tools in there that

you need for that healthcheck.

If you don't provide that healthcheck in your Dockerfile,

then you're leaving it up to someone else to maybe

implement it, or maybe not.

Then, you're just not going to have as great of a

production experience, especially when it comes to updating

your containers, or rolling them over and replacing them

with new ones. If you're interested, or already using

Kubernetes, know that Kubernetes itself does not

use the healthcheck command out of your Dockerfile.

Because Kubernetes has two types of healthchecks,

readiness and liveness checks.

Those would be in your Kubernetes deployment files,

which are not the same as your Dockerfile itself.

I would still recommend that you put the liveness check

in your Dockerfiles.

That way, even if someone likes to run it without

Kubernetes, they're still getting the benefit, and it also

serves as good documentation for someone who might be

building your Kubernetes deployment files for you.

I have a couple of samples in the healthchecks directory of

the course repo. Let's go check them out.

What I've given you here is a sample app with a

Dockerfile that has three healthchecks in it.

This doesn't make any sense. This Dockerfile won't actually

work as you expect. There's no such thing as three

healthchecks.

I just want to give you three, different options and we're

going go through them here.

Really, in each Dockerfile, you would keep one.

If you actually did try to build this Dockerfile, it would

just replace the second and third ones over top of

the one before it, so you'd end up with the third one being

the one that's actually used.

The first one here, option one, is the one that we always

see exampled in documentation.

I actually copied this straight out of Docker's

documentation. This works for Node web

apps. In fact, for Node apps, really if it doesn't have

a public endpoint, or it doesn't have something listening

on a TCP port, healthchecks get a little trickier.

In this example, we're talking about just HTTP

endpoints that you might access.

It doesn't mean that this container needs to be public on

the Internet because again, these are all running from

inside the container themselves so they can just talk

directly to the localhost and access the other apps

inside that container.

In option one here, we're using the cURL, and make sure

that you have cURL installed because it needs to be in the

container to be used.

Make that connect against the localhost and you'll see that

it has a -f and the exit 1 at the end

with the two pipes.

That's really there to make sure that the output

of cURL, in case it fails, is compatible

with the healthcheck command. Because the healthcheck

command expects either an exit code of 0 or 1,

and not some other exit code.

That way of using that bash command there, with the pipes,

forces either cURL to return a successful 0,

or to only return exit 1.

If you're using something else besides cURL, you just want

to make sure that it's going to use either one of those

exit codes. Here in example 2,

we're getting a little more advanced.

We're using a custom endpoint.

So, we're still using the cURL command, but we're hitting a

custom URL that presumably has some logic

behind it. In my sample, little happy app

here, if I scroll down, I've created a special endpoint

just for the healthz endpoint.

Really, the endpoint you pick for your apps doesn't

really matter. But, it is common in distributed computing,

cloud computing, and especially containers now, for you

to create a special endpoint just for healthchecks

that isn't just the default webpage.

You've seen some examples, especially if you're in the Go

language community, around healthz.

I'm using that standard of the name here, but again, it

doesn't really matter. Just as long as you're consistent.

Presumably, this particular endpoint

would do some logic and things that you'd want to check.

Piece of advice. Don't have these internal healthchecks

asking for database queries, or things outside

of this container's control.

Because you don't want to have a container's healthcheck

cause it to fail that container and replace it if there's

a problem with some other container.

You really want individual container healthchecks

to be isolated just to that container itself.

So, you're really just checking the internal health of that

particular one.

You're going to leave the larger monitoring of a

cohesive system of distributed applications, you're going

to leave that up to third-party tooling

and monitoring for some other day.

Of course, in my example here, I'm not having it do

anything other than return a healthy 200 code.

But, really you probably should have it doing a little bit

more advanced checking here.

Of course, if it simply responds, that does mean, at least,

it's accepting requests.

This isn't a waste of time here, but as you get

more advanced in your application development, you're

probably going to want to add more advanced stuff here.

Maybe you're going to have it checking for proper files on

the machine, or proper permissions, or stuff like that.

Back to the Dockerfile, for the third example I have here,

this one is running a Node command

outside of the Node Command running the

application itself in the container.

So technically, while this healthcheck is running, there's

two, different Node binaries running, and

they're running different files. In this case, it's running

a special JavaScript file I've created just to do

the logic I want for the healthcheck.

The nice thing here is there are several advantages.

One is I don't need cURL in the image because I'm just

using Node to check Node.

I can skip the extra utility.

Second, I can put a lot more logic on the frontend,

or the client side of that HC.js file,

and how it checks. It may do more than just check a web

URL. It may check permissions and not require

the Node app it's calling to to do that for

it. You can see I have a healthcheck.js file.

Here it does a very simple check using an HTTP

client that essentially just checks the server healthz

endpoint.

So, it's not really gaining us much here, but maybe this

client script could do other things in the file system, or

check for specific files that it expects, something like

that. It's really up to you whether you put this into the

healthcheck logic itself, or you build it into your app,

and the healthcheck itself is just simply cURLing or

testing a URL.

You also have to think about the third-party monitoring

tools that are going to be outside of this Node.js

app and how they're going to talk to this app and

check health remotely.

Really, to sum this up, in the end, it's up to you how

you do these healthchecks.

I've provided a link or two in the resources here

for you to go read more on Node.js healthchecks specific

to Node.js because really, it gets into the

programming of the language and how you want your apps to

be checked.

My rule of thumb is to always have something,

even if it's simply testing the root URL of

a website or something else.

If it's a non web app, some

of the things that I might recommend to you are to have

your Node.js app simply writing

out the health to a file every so often.

Then the healthcheck command is checking that file.

OK. Because if you don't have an endpoint in

your app itself to check remotely from a different

application, you're not left with much.

So maybe that's just a worker Node.js app and it's just

sitting there waiting for files to be ingested.

Maybe it's an image processing solution.

In that case, what I would do is I'd have a healthcheck

that was running some custom JavaScript logic in

this third option here.

That would simply drop a file in the location inside

the container for that Node app to find it, and

then it would process it, and then the test script would

check for the result.

Then if everything looked great, then you would know that

the container is processing those images correctly.

Once you get into the non website stuff,

it kind of gets very specific to the domain of

what your app is doing.

But you can still do healthchecks.

