If you're considering running Docker Compose the command

line on a production server, this lecture's

for you. Because I'm here to try to convince you to not do

that. Docker Compose the command line is a great

developer and testing tool, but it is not designed,

and not ideal, for production deployments.

To be clear, I'm not talking about the Docker Compose file.

That file can be used in various ways with production

clustering systems like Swarm and Kubernetes.

That file is used in lots of places.

It's just YAML describing your application and can be

consumed by many things.

What I am talking about is the Docker Compose CLI,

that command line that you've learned so much about

throughout this course.

That is really designed as a dev and test tool, but it

doesn't understand production concepts.

First, it only understands the single engine,

or server, that it's talking to.

So, if you have more than one server, it can't help

you. It would have to be run separately on each server,

which becomes very tedious.

The number two reason I don't recommend Docker Compose in

production is that it doesn't understand production

concerns like healthchecks, or rolling

updates, or uptime.

It doesn't realize that these things are necessary because

it's not designed for that. So, it doesn't give you options

for those kinds of scenarios and certainly doesn't give you

flexibility like a lot of orchestrators and more

advanced container run times do.

You might be thinking, well, I have very simple

requirements. I only need a single server and I don't

really need crazy uptime.

It's OK if I have a couple of minutes of downtime when I

need to update my apps and maybe I don't update then very

often. I'm here to argue that Swarm

is still a great option for you, and it's not much

more work than what you're already doing.

If you're already using Docker Compose, you have created

that Compose file and Swarm is built into

the Docker command line itself, the Docker Engine, and can

consume that same Compose file.

Almost all the features you've been using with Compose

throughout this course can translate into the Version 3

file format that is compatible with Swarm

and Kubernetes, if you're using something like Kubernetes

on Compose, which is an extra Kubernetes add-on.

My recommendation is even if you have a single server, or

just three servers, try out Swarm first.

If you don't have a requirement for a specific clustering

technology or container deployment solution, give Swarm

a try. It's really meant to be the easy button for

orchestration, and it works out-of-the-box with Docker and

works with your Compose files.

If you want more information on the detailed reasons why

you might consider Swarm over Docker Compose, and the pros

and cons, there's a resource link included with this

lecture to a GitHub post where I detailed

my top 10 reasons...maybe its top 10.

It's something around that. You can check that out at

a later time. But, understand that really if you've

taken any of my other courses, you've heard me talk about

Swarm because it is a great, easy orchestrator to get

started with.

If you're considering Kubernetes and you keep hearing the

buzz about Kubernetes, it is definitely the most popular

orchestrator, but it may not be for you depending

on your size and requirements.

If you're thinking about a small deployment, something that

may only need one to five servers, then Kubernetes

is probably not recommended for you.

In most of those cases, I would recommend Swarm because it

will work well with one or even three servers.

One server with Swarm would provide you no fault

tolerance, but it would still work great and would provide

you extra features over top of Docker Compose.

If you had three servers, Swarm can provide you full

encryption and fault tolerance and load balancing.

With Kubernetes, you're going to need more infrastructure

than that. If you're considering Kubernetes, my first

recommendation is try one of the cloud hosted

versions of Kubernetes. Whether it's Amazon, or Azure or

DigitalOcean, they all now have a Kubernetes offering,

and you can create deployment YAML files to use

with those services. That way, you won't have to build your

own Kubernetes infrastructure unless you really, really

need it. If you're in a large team, with multiple DevOps

members, and you know you need Kubernetes, then you

probably already have a plan for that and you know what

you're doing. You maybe have bought a product or are using

something like Rancher, or Docker Enterprise, or OpenShift,

and that's fine. Those are great distributions of

Kubernetes that take a lot of the work out of building

your cluster. Swarm doesn't require all of that.

So, if you can get away with the simpler version of

clustering, like Swarm, then check that out.

