Now, what about ARM in production?

We've got lots of options out there now.

It used to be, just a couple of years ago, that you had to find a sort of one-off cloud hoster to see if

you can find ARM.

Now, we have multiple options, including last year, 2018, AMD announced their A1 instances based

on their new Graviton processors.

These are basically ARM processors that AWS is building themselves.

There's several reasons you might consider this.

The instances are cheaper. You technically get a little bit more RAM, and maybe better networking, for the

same price out-of-the-box.

They're not super cheap

on AWS right now. But, they are something that you should consider and weigh if you're thinking about

running a very small solution, or you just want to scale out a whole lot of small instances. Because right

now, the ARM ones are pretty slow compared to their standard Intel counterparts. But, everyone expects

that to change over the next few years as ARM gets faster.

For me, the big angle here is testing my IoT, or embedded code. Which basically means that if I'm running

Node eventually on something like a quadcopter drone or something, or some sensors that are out in the

field. Those things, I don't necessarily have to have them on my desk to test everything out.

Unless I'm testing those specialized sensors or things that are hardware specific.

The cool thing about having something like AWS ARM stuff is that I can put my code in GitHub.

I can develop it locally with Docker Desktop

that's using the ARM emulation with QEMU.

Then, when I'm in the cloud, I can have my CI solutions, my automated testing and stuff, all be running

on ARM there, on real ARM bare metal.

There's a few gotchas because when you start thinking about all the stuff that you're doing in your

code. Maybe it's on GitHub. Maybe you're building images on Docker Hub. Maybe you're doing other things in

Continuous Integration.

Each one of those steps is going to need to support ARM, or at least allow you some way to get QEMU

running so that you can emulate ARM if you want to.

For right now, Docker Hub doesn't officially support ARM right out-of-the-box.

It doesn't technically have ARM servers sitting there ready to build your Docker images. You can

still technically use QEMU there with the features that they have in Docker Hub for using Docker

Compose,

you can kind of set stuff up. I've linked to some resources here where can go check out other people

solving this problem.

You can sort of set stuff up so that it will build with emulation using QEMU.

Of course, if you have your own CI solution, you might consider whether or not you want to run some

of those things natively on ARM hardware. Or, if you're okay with the QEMU emulation for building and

testing. The cool thing here is that Docker Engine is supported on ARM, and the Docker documentation

for something like Ubuntu, works the same way on ARM.

If you're on the doc site, you just select the little option for ARM, and it'll give you the, more or

less, the 99 percent of the same commands. You'll just need to change the architecture in one of the

commands. Then, it all works. The Docker Engine installs.

And guess what?

Swarm orchestration is there too. It's in Docker Engine on every architecture.

So, it doesn't really matter whether Swarm is running on Windows, or Mainframe, or Linux or ARM. It's all the

same to Docker.

I'd like to show you how similar this setup is when you're using Docker, regardless that its ARM.

I'm on AWS, and I simply created a new instance in EC2.

I just searched for Ubuntu ARM, and found a marketplace official image. I created an A1 medium.

That's the smallest instance size for the ARM that they have right now.

If you jump over to the Docker documentation like I was saying, on the Ubuntu install page, if you scroll

down, it's something that most people may not realize,

but, when you get down there, the instructions change because you have all these tabs.

One of them is ARM64.

It changes basically a little bit of the commands that you have the right architecture there when

you're installing Docker.

The rest is the same. I've taken the image that we previously built from my local Node by just changing

the from command, right.

Then, I built the image and it was ARM.

Now, I've tagged that to my account on Docker Hub.

I'm just going to push that up real quick. Then, I'm going to SSH into that ARM server in AWS.

Now, on this server, I have installed Docker already, per the instructions on the Docker website.

It's just running standard Ubuntu. Let's check Docker version real quick.

All right that looks good.

Now, I'm going to do a docker run. I'm going to publish the port again. Let's do 3000 this time.

We'll attach it on bretfisher arm64 node and it's going to pull down my image and run it on

this ARM platform. I'll do a quick docker ps to make sure everything is running. Let's go check it

in the browser. All right.

On the IP address of that box, I've gone to port 3000, and the Node app is there as we expect.

Really, this is just a choice. You might have different reasons for those choices.

The goal here with Docker is that regardless of your architecture, even if it's something like Windows

or Mainframe, that you're having to change as little as possible to be able to run this.

