All right. Our plan is still that we need to remove pods

from the service. We don't want it to go to both the

deployment and the DaemonSet of rng.

So, we've talked about possibly changing the pods,

but we keep realizing that if we did that, then it would

just make more pods.

That's kind of what Kubernetes is supposed to do.

So what are we going to do here?

Well, the key is to not change the pods, but to change

the service. So, we're going to add a new

label to the selector in

the service so that it's only choosing the pods that

we want. What we'll end up with here is a service

that is a complex selector

and that it's adding multiple labels to

its requirements. Now, if you simply take a selector,

and you add two labels to it, in a row, with a

comma, that's considered an and.

It's going to look for both of those and expect both of

them in order to find the pod it needs.

There are other advanced ways that gives you a lot more

flexibility in how these selectors can be configured.

But, we're not going to go into that yet.

That's not something we can do right now.

We know that our DaemonSet and our deployment both

will look for things with the app=rng,

and if it doesn't see that, then it will recreate the pods.

What we're going to do is we're going to go to the service,

we're going to add a label to the pods first,

and then we're going to change the selector in the service

to look for both of the labels.

That new label won't be known

by the DaemonSet or the deployment.

It'll still see the two pods.

Then, what we can do is selectively remove

that label from one of the pods.

That allows our service to decide which

pod it's going to send traffic to based on us

changing that label.

First, let's add a label to the pod.

We have to do this first.

Otherwise, if we go change the selector in the service,

then all traffic would stop, right.

Because it wouldn't be able to find the pods it needs.

First, let's add this additional label to

both pods. We can do that with one command using

the label command. So, kubectl label.

We're only going to look for pods.

We're going to give this command its own selectors.

We're going to say look for pods with app=rng

as a label and then add

enabled=y.

We're adding the second label to any pod

with the existing label app=rng.

We're going to need to update the service selector so that

it's looking for both of these labels to send traffic

to the pod. If we go back to our command line

and kubectl edit service

rng. This is our first edit command, which will

open it up in your default editor.

By the way, you might be wondering why it popped up Vim on

my machine. That's using either the standard

editor environment variable in your shell.

Or, if it's on a Linux shell, it'll backup to vi.

If it's on a Windows shell, it'll backup and use Notepad,

which is a safe default.

You can change that through environment variables.

You just Google it. There's a couple of options, Editor and

there's another one for Kube_Editor.

All right. I've got this file open.

This is opening the real YAML from

the resource for the service.

Don't be distracted by the first sight of the labels,

App=rng.

This is not related to the selector.

This is simply the label in the metadata.

You can see, anything under metadata is simply a label on

the object itself. For the service resource, it

too has a label and that can be a little tricky, right.

These labels are at all the different levels.

It can be tricky to see which one or the other.

What we're looking for is the label under the spec,

not in the metadata itself.

This is simply just information about the service.

We want to look under the spec for the selector

key and then under that, we should see all of the labels

the selector's using to find its pods.

Here, we want to add a new one, enabled yes.

Then, you can save your file and exit.

You'll notice that I got an error. It says service rng

could not be patched, unrecognized type string.

That's because the JAML parser is smarter than

we are. This has to do with a little bit of

data intelligence, or type intelligence, inside of the YAML

spec. we're just looking at this as it's a regular text

file. But, what's happening in the background is this is

parsed by the API, and by the command line, to

make sure that it's meeting the requirements of

the data types. In this case, we gave it a yes.

The problem is in YAML, if you don't quote

things like yes, it'll think it's a Boolean value.

Here's some examples of how YAML can kind

of mess with you. I mean, a number is obvious.

It will think it's an integer. But letters, it

will think is a string, by default, which is fine.

But, if you added in yes or true

as text, it will automatically consider it a Boolean

unless we quote it.

So, in the next video, we're going to try this again.

See if we can quote it right the second time and see if

that gets us to where we want to be with this service.