All right. We're almost done with selectors for now.

One more important video to talk about.

We're putting resources in your resources.

Which if you haven't figured this out yet, the

DaemonSet is a resource that creates

pods, which are other resources.

Just like a deployment, which

is three levels. A deployment resource

creates a ReplicaSet resource, creates a bunch of pod

resources.

This can be a little conceptually challenging because these

labels are used at all the levels.

They're used for both metadata assigning to a resource,

and then the selectors for choosing

which resources it will govern.

This is tricky. I've talked about this several times these

last few videos. If you're still not quite there, that's

OK. We're going to be using this stuff eventually, and

it will allow us to have a lot more flexibility

in advanced setups.

Let's talk about a couple of those.

When you're finally in your production Kubernetes,

and you've got a misbehaving container,

selectors and labels become your friends because it allows

you to take something that's misbehaving, or acting weird,

and remove it from service without just deleting it.

We don't have to go in and delete pods.

We could do that, and it would automatically create new

ones, whether it's a deployment or a DaemonSet.

It'll create those new pods once the selectors no longer

match or once the pods delete it.

But, we could leave the pod there, for

debugging, right. Want to check it out.

Look at it more deeply to see what's wrong with it.

Why did it misbehave?

You could do something like removing the labels from that

pod, so it would leave the selector

for the service. Then it would still be running like we

just did in the deployment for rng.

That container could remain running in its pod but

not be attached to any service.

Then, we have plenty of time to back up, take

another look at it, dive in deep, do whatever we need to

do. Attach a debugger or something like that.

Then if it needs to be killed at that point, you can just

delete the pod.

On the other hand, this could be used for good when

you want to do more advanced deployment scenarios.

You can use labels and selectors in a more

granular way to do fancier types of deployments

like canary or blue-green, which we really haven't talked

about yet. The default way with

Kubernetes is to do a rolling update, which is coming up

here in a few videos.

There's other ways you could do it.

These labels and selectors are largely a part

of the solution for how we gain this granular

control over what resources are used in which

services.

I really like this first example here of

potentially using a one-shot pod.

We haven't talked about one-shot pod yet, but one-shot pod

is where you manually create a pod from YAML.

It's a simple little thing, but it maybe has

debugging turned on.

It's just like the rest of your apps, but it maybe has a

bunch of flags enabled so that you can get more data out of

it. So you create that one pod and it's

kind of special, right. It's not created by deployment or

anything else. Then, you change the labels on it

to let it slide into a service so it can start

receiving traffic.

Then, when you're ready to pull it out to investigate it,

you can remove those labels and let it slide out of the

service.

It's an interesting way to sneak something in for a little

bit, catch some traffic and sneak it back out.

All right. Here's another cleanup task for you.

We're going to pause the DockerCoins stuff for a

little bit while we learn some other things we need to

learn before getting back into it.

We're going to, instead of just stopping them, we're just

going to go out and delete all those resources, run both of

these commands to delete everything.

Then we'll come back later and re-add them with another

apply command when we need them.