All right. These next few lectures are all about YAML

and learning to write YAML for your Kubernetes resources.

If you haven't figured it out yet, there's a lot of YAML in

Kubernetes.

It's kind of a running joke that you live in YAML if you

are operating Kubernetes.

Now, there's obviously a lot of commands that we've been

using so far that have helped us avoid YAML so

far. But, as you get closer to production,

you will be using more YAML.

Why is that? Well, when we look at commands like run, and

create, and expose, those are using generators

which are for convenience.

They're easy to get started with, and they allow you to run

quick commands without having to write a bunch of files.

They are easy, but they have limits, and

those limits are often not something you want to deal with

in production. So, we're going

to need to answer a few questions. We're going to need to answer how

you write your own YAML.

How do you start with fresh YAML, maybe

from documentation or something else, instead of going from

scratch? And then, for those of you that are brand new to

YAML, let's just talk about the

basics of it real quick so we're all on the same page.

A quick recap and

then I'll send you off. If you're still new to YAML to

some other resources on the Internet, is YAML is a

superset of JSON. So, it technically works along

with JSON. You can turn YAML into JSON, and back and forth.

It's compatible that way.

It's a superset because it's

better for humans than JSON. JSON is great for parsing

with a computer program, but YAML tends

to be easier for humans to read, Easier for us to write,

allows things like comments.

There's a lot of benefits there.

So, it's a great data storage system is kind

of what it is. It stores data. It's not a programming

language. There's really three,

key parts you need to know. Just the key value pairs,

which you've seen a lot of, arrays and lists, and

then dictionary and maps.

If you can go to some tutorials and just learn

those three, basic concepts, it'll get you way close

to being everything you need to know in "Kubernetes land." Because

Kubernetes, like a lot of other tools like Docker, and

Compose, and whatnot, they don't use super

advanced YAML features. They try to stick with the core

features. A little tip here, by

the way, is always use spaces. That's a biggie.

If you try to use tabs, nothing is going to go well for

you. We tend to nowadays,

especially with Kubernetes, tend to have a standard around

two spaces for the indentations.

You can really use any you want as

long as it's consistent in that file. You could use four,

but the standard right now tends to be two.

So, I write in two and this course is designed

for two. Your files can be written the way you want.

Down at the bottom there's other tutorials, including

YouTube video on watching some other basics in case you

want to get a refresher.

Back to Kubernetes resources.

We call these things manifests and we're going to stick

with YAML. Technically, we could write in JSON.

But again, that's for computers.

We are humans. We're going to write in YAML.

Each file can contain one or more manifests.

The manifest describes one resource object per

manifest. You

have four main parts. We've talked about this before, but

you have the API version, the kind, the

metadata and the spec.

Every resource has to have that.

Here's the simplest one I can come up with for

creating a pod. I think maybe creating a namespace

would be a little simpler. Maybe one line less, but a pod

is more interesting. A pod is a real thing.

It's creating an application, running a container with

an image. And you'll see here that we have the API version1

and we have the kind which is

pod. Notice the capitalization on the kind.

The kinds are usually humped.

They have the camel humps along the name.

So, if it's a ReplicaSet, it'll have the capital R

and a capital S on the words.

The metadata, the minimum there it

has to be the name, and then the spec is whatever

that resource's requirement for a spec is. There is definitely

no consistency there because all

different types of resources have different types of

requirements. If you were to take two of these manifests

and shove them into one YAML file, this is how they

would look like. In fact, this is a good example of a

deployment. Then a service in front

of that for the same Nginx container.

They're separated by three dashes.

You can add as many of these as you want into a single file

and just make sure that between each

resource manifest, you have added the three dashes, and

you'll be good to go. So, getting back to that generated

YAML. Those run commands, and the create commands, and the

expose command, they use those generators.

But, they only have so many options.

They can't do all the possible things for

those resource types that you can do in YAML.

So, YAML is going to be always a complete superset

of what the CLI can do for us.

So the CLI for those commands is good to get started.

Like we said, but it won't do all of

these things and more. It won't help us create

healthchecks. Or, if you ever need a pod with

multiple containers, you can't do that. And then there's

resource types that don't have their own commands.

There's lots of stuff under create, but the create

command cannot yet do DaemonSet and

StatefulSet. The key there is yet. A lot

of stuff keeps getting added and Kubernetes is ever

changing.

So, I wouldn't be surprised if more resource types were

added to the create command as we go forward.

We don't have to start from scratch. You certainly can if

you want to.

But one option is to take what we've already done, a

resource that exists, and then output it in YAML and

then modify that. You've done that a couple of times

already. The trick there is to not do it for a

different resource type. That's how we got in trouble with

a deployment in a DaemonSet.

But, you certainly have that option.

Edit it, then apply it to a new resource,

and there's good starter YAML in

the documentation. So, there will be resources in this

lecture that you can click for these examples on

StatefulSet, DaemonSet, ConfigMap, and there's a lot more

on GitHub. In fact, the GitHub repo for the Kubernetes

website has dozens and dozens of YAML

examples in them, and they keep those up to date with the

current versions. There's another option that

we haven't talked about using dry run.

So, let's go back to the command line, and let's

see what a dry run command can do for us.

The trick here is we're going to use the

generator to give us some sample YAML to start.

We're doing a create command on a deployment.

It's going to run Nginx.

We're going to call it web.

But the magic happens at the end.

We're going to do an -o yaml for the output.

And then a dry run. The difference with this is versus

all the ones we've done before is that the dry run won't

create the resource. It won't even talk to the server.

It'll just do this in the command line on

your local machine and spit out the YAML without

ever needing resources created.

All right. We're going to do kubectl create deployment web with

the image of Nginx and then -o yaml

and then --dry-run.

What we get is an output that we could have

piped into a file.

Or, we can just copy and paste this, but this will be very

similar to the example I just showed you.

It gives us the API version and then a spec.

Notice the replicas of one because everything defaults

to one pod when you create these things.

We got the other stuff in here that maybe isn't

required, but it's a part of that generated YAML.

Let's do one more.

Let's do a kubectl create namespace, put awesome app and

then

-o yaml --dry-run.

This is a nice, short one.

In fact, I do think this is probably the short one that I

can think of. It has an empty spec.

The status isn't required, and the creation

timestamp isn't required.

But that stuff's not going to hurt.

We could always use the force if we had to.

Over time, using this method, you'll get used to the

standard things that you need to pull out of these

generated YAMLs to leave you with what's left

as necessary.

There is a lot of other create commands that you

could try on your own.

This is sort of a bonus round if you want to see some of

the other YAMLs and their similarity and differences.

Again, most of the differences between these types of

resources are all going to be in their spec.

Because clearly, the spec for deployment is going to be

quite different than the spec for a quota

or something like that.