In this lecture, we're going to go through creating a YAML

from scratch, which is a pretty big deal.

Not Something you normally do on your first day

in Kubernetes land.

Most people just start with the generated stuff, or go

look at the documentation, and find the samples

there, and copy and paste them. Then they store them

locally on their machine as their own private template

repository. That's how most people get started.

But, I find it an excellent exercise in being

resourceful on how you might do this

with your blinders on. Pretending that you don't have

generators and that you don't have Google.

That the only thing you have is the command

line, and maybe the API docs, as a backup.

So, let's go through that exercise.

I call this YAML The Hard Way because this is paying

respects to Kelsey Hightower's excellent walkthrough of

how to build out a Kubernetes cluster.

This is mostly for those of you that would install

everything by hand, which is kind of crazy to do

because there's a lot to it.

But, if you've ever checked out Kubernetes The Hard Way,

it's a good way to kill a day or two

on writing out all the commands by hand that all of the

automated, generated solutions like kubeadm

and K-Ops, and all of the distributions,

they all make it easy to deploy Kubernetes.

But, he spells it out one step at a time so

you can really understand all the stuff that's going on.

Anyway, let's go through it.

Real quick, we have the different four parts.

Three of these parts, you can use commands

to dig into what needs to go there.

So, let's go step by step to

see what we need to do.

First thing is we really need to figure out what is this

resource. What resource are we going to create?

Let's just do a pod, since we know that well,

and we're not yet going to learn any other new resources.

We'll save that for later.

So, let's go to the command line and use the API resources

command to look at something.

kubectl api resources.

And I get back a pretty large list.

In fact, if I zoom out, it gets a little hard for you to

read. So, I'm just going to read off what we're looking at.

But if you scroll to the top here, there's name

on the left, and on the right is the

kind. They're usually the same value, but

the difference is the kind, which is what you have to put

in the file, has got the capitalization

in it. Camel humps.

So, down here at pod, we have

this here. You'll notice that the kind is

pod, singular, but the name is pods.

The name you can use at the command line.

That's what you can use for use get pods.

You know, stuff like that. But the pod kind, on the right,

is what we have to put in our YAML file.

I should note that this list will be slightly different for

all of us because depending on your cluster deployment and

all of the add-ons you've put into Kubernetes, this list

can get a lot longer.

All right. So, we know we're going to do pod with a capital

P as our kind.

Next step is we need to figure out what the API version is

for that. And this one could be a little tricky to figure

out, but I've got a shortcut for you.

And that's to go back to the command line.

And you'll notice on our resource, there's a

line in the middle, there's a column here, called API

group. That has to do with part

of the API version.

It turns out that the API version in your YAML file has two

parts to it. The first part is what group it is

in. And then the second part is the version of that.

There is no single command that tells you these things.

You have to use both of this command and the command I'm

about to show you. So, in here for pods,

the API group is blank, which means it's

using the root of the API.

It's not an extension.

So, we're going to not have to put in a slash.

If we were going to make a DaemonSet,

it would start, if you can see in the middle there, it's

going to have to start with apps/ the

version. So, whenever you're starting to look at the API

version, you'll now start to realize that you're sometimes

seeing v1, and you're sometimes seeing something like

apps/betav1.

And that's how you know is it starts with the

API group. Then our next command is going to

be kubectl api versions

if you can zoom in there.

What we see here is these are all

of the API groups, and it starts alphabetically.

Since we're at the root, we don't have

one of these. We don't even need to put in a slash.

We go all the way to the bottom and we can use v1.

So for our, because we're at the root, our

pod was going to be a v1.

If we were going to make that DaemonSet, let's scroll up

real quick looking for that DaemonSet.

And it had,

under extensions,

that was its API group. This extensions over here.

So when I go to the bottom, I have to look under extensions

and for that, that's exactly how, for the DaemonSet, I

would have to write the API version in the YAML file.

I would have to say extensions/v1beta1.

And you'll see over time that these will evolve.

It'll go from v1beta1 to either beta2

or maybe a v1.

And if you see some of these support

multiple versions at the same time, and this is for

backwards compatibility.

So, in case you had a networking add-on, you could support

the older API group, as well as the new one.

All right. Back to our list.

Now, we need to give it a name in the metadata.

That's simply metadata colon enter name

colon, whatever you want to call it.

This is required of every resource that I've tried.

So, I'm assuming it's a requirement of all of them.

Then we get to the meat of the file.

This is where 95% of your effort, 99%

of your effort is going to be.

It's going to be in the spec.

Like I said, the spec for different resources can be

totally different.

Specs have templates, and those templates can

have subspecs.

Just like we have a deployment that creates a

ReplicaSet, that creates a pod.

They're nested specs. That's how this gets

really complicated, really fast.

But, we've got two things at our disposal here.

We have explain commands, and then we have the API

reference. Let's just look at the API reference,

real quick, so that we can see how it looks

visually if we just want to browse a website.

The first thing is I have to pick my version of my cluster.

If we're on 1.15, then I'll go over here.

And on the left, we have the API's themselves.

And if you've ever looked at API documentation, this is

very similar. If we scroll here, we can

see under workload API's, the pod v1,

and a lot of times, will be examples there.

You can see a kubectl example.

And it shows us some nice YAML here.

We can copy and paste from.

That's great. You'll see here the pod specs.

So, we know that this is where we're starting to dive into

that meat of the file.

We have two here, a little bit hard to see, but we have pod

and pod template spec.

So, you'll need to look at both of these.

But, once you start looking to the file itself, like the

example up top, you'll see that

most of the information that it contains

is underneath spec containers.

So, we'll probably need to scroll down to the spec,

and then find the container's value, and then click on

it to then get into all the things that go

in that part. And you sort of drill your way down.

You're kind of diving into the API that way.

So, that's the first way we can do it.

The other one is through the command line using explain

commands. Let's look at a quick example.

If we do a kubectl explain

pod, it

gives us a definition.

It gives us a nice little friendly definition, and then the

root fields that we can put in that

YAML file.

The nice thing is, is it just tells...you know, obviously

know about the API version and the kind, but the spec is

what we really care about.

So, we need to dive into that spec object and see

the subfields that we want to put in.

The way we do that is following the fields down the line.

So, pod.spec and then

the stuff we get back is nothing but the fields under

spec itself.

If we decide we want to look in,

let's see. Let's do volumes.

We decide we want to look at volumes

specifically. We can do pod.spec.volumes.

Then it gives us the subfields for that as

well. And you can keep going and going this way until

you find the information about the fields you want to put

in. And of course, I'm sure if you Google these

different fields, you'll

find information, as well, in the official documentation.

But, we're trying to stay away from that. So, one other way

of looking at all of this at once is to type that

same command. We'll back it up to just spec and then do

recursive. That will take away and strip away all

the definitions and only show us the hierarchical format

of all the spec. As you can see, there's

quite a lot. This

is why so many of us tend to start with the generated, and

the samples, from the documentation because it's

a lot to look at here. Spec is probably one of the worst

because it has so many different nested types.

As you'll notice, in a pod, you have all

sorts of different volume types.

For every type of volume, there is

different cloud providers, different storage providers.

So, even that can make it more complex.

You don't necessarily have to worry about that on day one.

But, now you start

to see how you could build this out even if you were offline

and maybe only had the API docs.

It's certainly possible.

I would say that in practice, on a day-to-day basis, my

evolution was probably similar to yours.

I'm going to be starting with the documentation.

I'm going to be starting with the samples and the

generated versions from the command line using the create

command. Then, I'm going to evolve from there.

As I learn, I'm going to start using these other

scratch commands to fill in my

gaps and to understand new fields

that I should put into my resource and to make it do

what I need it to do. And the last little tip before

we get to the end of this video is to make sure you learn

about dry run and server dry run, which is going to come up

in the course, because those are how you can test this

YAML without applying

it to actually create resources. You

can test to make sure that all of your keys are correct and that your

schema is as it should be before you create

something in the real world.