And there's the other side of the coin to the server side

diff. This one is essentially a server side

diff, but it then returns the diff to the screen.

So, we get to see exactly what would have changed

in diff format. If you're familiar with that, it's a

standard format. You might have seen it when you do a get

diff. It's that same format.

So, if we just go to the command line real quick, we're

going to basically deploy a pod.

Then, we're going to edit the YAML, and change the image

tag, and then we're going to do a diff to see what would

change.

First, we just need to download a pod YAML.

So, if you have cURL, or Wget, or just pull it

up in a browser and save the file.

curl -O for Output, k8smastery.com/just-a-pod.yml.

And that'll save a file.

Now let's use an apply to create that pod.

apply -f just-a-pod.

The the way that kubectl diff works,

is you have to have some resource already created, and

then it's going to compare them with a service side diff,

followed by some output.

Now that we've created that, let's just go in and edit it

with your preferred editor.

We're going to change the image

tag from Nginx to

a version. So, I'm going to put in 1.17

and then save it. Then, we're going to do a kubectl diff

with

that same file.

Now, it's going to use the selectors, the name and the

metadata to match the two.

It's then going to do a diff and show us

that minus and plus, like we're used to in diffs,

shows us that that's the line that changed and it didn't

actually do anything.

That's the point of a diff is to just allow you one, last

little confirmation before you apply some

new YAML to an existing resource to make sure that it's

not going to have unintended consequences.

A quick reminder. Do another cleanup by deleting

that pod we just created with the YAML file

before we go to the next lecture.