Lots of your applications are going to need some form of

configuration.

And, there's lots of ways to do that.

We had lots of ways before containers, but I think

containers give us even more common options

that we need to go through.

Up front, we can just list the ones we can think

of, like command line arguments.

Pretty common.

Environment variables.

Probably pretty common, at least for me.

I know that with Docker and 12-factor apps, if you've ever

heard of 12-factor apps, that was the standard to begin

with. When we started with Docker, even before that with

12-factor environment variables were considered the

thing. That's how you should do configuration in your apps.

But, so many of our apps also require configuration files,

especially database servers and key value stores.

Older systems tend to lean more heavily on config

files. Those can be a little tricky sometimes, but we

have a way to deal with that in Kubernetes as well.

We have other things that are a little bit more rare,

like configuration servers where maybe you

have some other system that has an API to it,

or something, and you go and grab configuration on startup

from that.

I've seen that in highly complex scenarios where people

have many different environments.

They might have a third-party tool that does that.

Then, there's other options because we're all programmers,

and we can make up new ways to do this stuff.

Let's go through the pros and cons of some of these

examples.

Let's start off by just talking about all the

ways we might get something into a container.

Because a container is a special type of

application thing that we have

more options with and even some that we've been using

for years, and some that are new to Kubernetes.

You've probably been using some form of baking

the configuration of something into a container, if you're

new to this. But, that that tends to have a lot of

limitations. We'll talk about that.

Command line arguments, for some applications, this is the

standard, especially for prebuilt systems.

Traefik is a really good one that allows you to configure a

lot of it from the command line options.

Environment variables is one that's common, I find,

in a lot of different custom applications.

Maybe your PHP apps would have environment variables

settings. I've been doing PHP for quite a long

time, and that was the standard for quite some time

until we got into more file-based ones, which

we might have to inject.

Injecting configuration files can be in the image

where that would bake into the image right there.

Or, it can be something that we inject

at runtime, and Kubernetes stores them and puts

them in itself. We can talk about that.

Then, there's the Kubernetes API where we can

technically store configuration for our apps

in Kubernetes itself and expose that through the

Kubernetes API.

Then, like we mentioned earlier, you know, configuration

servers. Configuration servers that are beyond the scope of

this course because they have nothing to do with

Kubernetes. If you have a custom solution where

your applications start up and go check some third-party

tool, then you might just stick with that because it's

working for you. In that scenario, it doesn't really need

to change just because it's running in a container.

It's not relying on the underlying host for anything.

But, the common theme on a lot of these was before we

had Kubernetes, we had to manage this configuration

in a manual way.

We had to come up with scripts, or tools, that

would handle the various configurations for our different

environments.