Let's talk about the first couple of options for getting

configurations into our containers.

The first one here is what a lot of people do when they

start. So, if you've been doing containers a while, you've

probably learned that baking configurations into

your images, and then having different tags on your images,

for different types of configurations, that's not the way

to do it. In fact, there's so many downsides here.

I don't think I really need to list them all.

Essentially, you end with a bunch of different

container images, and every time you add a different

configuration, different environment, or something else,

you now have a new image.

It becomes impossible to consider all the different

options. Most teams that I work with don't just have one

cluster, and they don't just have one environment.

It's a lot of different configurations, and stagings, and

all that stuff. So, don't do this.

The next one here, though, is dependent upon the

application you have. So, if you have an application like

I mentioned Traefik, and there's definitely others, that

allow you to configure a significant portion of them

through command line arguments, then you might want to

consider that.

By the way, a lot of the Kubernetes parts all

do the same thing here.

If you start looking at the process list on

your nodes and you look at the kubelet, and the

kube API, and all the other parts, the scheduler

and the controller manager, all these different parts you

can configure with arguments at the command line.

A lot of the different deployment methodologies use that.

So, the rule around these is if your application supports

them, then this might be the easiest way to do it.

You can override those in your YAML

just as much as you can override them in your Docker image.

But, if you change your Docker image, you get back to

problem one where you're shipping configuration in an

image. So, you're probably going to overwrite this

inside your deployments, and your StatefulSets, and your

DaemonSets, and all the other types, you're going to be

putting that in your YAMLs and override command and then

throwing all those different arguments in.

The next one here is environment variables.

Now, I'll say this is probably the most common way

to configure an application, assuming it supports

environment variables.

A lot of times, it really depends on your application,

whether it can accept a config file, or environment

variables, or command line arguments.

You'll notice there's a couple of things about this in

Kubernetes YAML that you need to pay attention to.

One is just a YAML problem where

you need to make sure things are strings.

So, if it doesn't have alphabetic letters in it like this

one, then it might accidentally be considered a number, and

you want these things to be strings.

So, you're going to need to quote any port numbers.

Anytime you have a space or special characters

that might throw off YAML, you're going to want to quote

them. In fact, when in doubt, just quote all the values.

You'll notice another

thing about this information that is a little bit different

than what you maybe have seen with Compose files for Docker

Compose, or in Docker image Dockerfile

examples is that the name and the value are

two, separate key value pairs.

We'll see why that is in a couple of minutes with different

examples.

But, other different

ways to do this stuff requires this same format of name and

value. So just remember in Kubernetes, these

are separate, and you can't just make it a one liner.