Now we need to create the pod itself.

So, we're going to need some YAML, in a pod spec format,

that will connect this ConfigMap into

the pod. That's how we do it here.

You'll notice we're using the pod spec

and we're calling it haproxy.

The spec here has got two parts to it.

It's important to understand their differences.

First, we have to set up a volume and

we...this is where we're giving access for the pod

to reach this resource.

We're essentially saying, hey, this ConfigMap is allowed

to be accessed by this container.

Here, we're going to call it config

inside of this YAML, but we're asking it to pull

an object of the ConfigMap kind,

and it needs to go find the one that's called haproxy.

So, this is how it finds the ConfigMap.

Then, this is what it's going to call that ConfigMap in

this pod spec.

Down at the bottom, we have where we're mounting

that data, and we're going to consider

it a volume, and we're going to call it config.

That'll be the file name.

Then, this is where we want it to put that file.

Now, let's create the HAProxy resource so that it's

actually running the container.

Then, we'll go check to see if the ConfigMap is in it by

cURLing it.

kubectl apply -f https

k8smastery.com/

haproxy.yaml.

That should create our HAProxy.

If you're on Mac or Windows, or your cluster

is not local, you're going to need to get back into shpod

because we're going to need to talk to the pod IP address.

So, I'm going to go ahead and attach to the shpod

that I've had running this whole time.

Now, I'm in that and I can do a kubectl

get pod haproxy.

I'm going to do output wide and you'll see that.

-o wide.

All right. And see, there is the IP address

for this pod. Of course, your pod's going be different than

mine. What we want to do is we want to cURL that pod.

You can either just copy and paste that IP

address, or you can use the jq, like

we've done before, to set this up in an environment

variable.

So, we can use the kubectl get proxy that have output

as JSON, and then use the jq command to

go find the status.pod IP address.

Now, we've done that. Our environment variable for IP

should be the IP address of the pod.

Back on our slides, we can go and cURL

the IP address multiple times

and we should see some response

in HTML. Let's see what we see.

curl $IP.

Now, you'll notice that because we're just simply cURLing

an IP and its proxying the connection to

Google.com or IBM.com.

So, if we hit up arrow again, hit it one more time,

we will see different results.

The first one here, you'll notice that it tries to redirect

us to Google. Second one is trying to redirect us to IBM.

If we hit it again, it'll go to Google.

So, that's HAProxy's doing a job of load balancing

each connection to the two, different results.

We know it works because otherwise, if

HAProxy didn't have that config set up properly,

it wouldn't be able to redirect us.

This is not the default behavior of HAProxy.

So, we now know that the ConfigMap worked

as expected. That's the end of our first ConfigMap

demo.