Now, what about Secrets?

We all got Secrets. We got passwords.

We got API tokens.

We've got user names that we might consider

them secret, or part of the secret equation.

Or, we just might have an entire file full of secret data.

Maybe we have config files that are partially secret.

So, we consider the whole thing secret.

Well, regardless of any of that, we have a separate

resource, just like ConfigMaps

that store Secrets.

There's a few differences, but the functionality is the

same. It's just a little bit more secure than

ConfigMaps. You can get Secrets the same way you get

and create ConfigMaps, you can use

to get Secrets YAML and it will give you the Secret.

Now, it'll give it to you in an encoding.

It'll look encrypted, but it's technically just Base64

encoded. Don't confuse that with encryption.

It doesn't encrypt these when you get them with the Secrets

command. But, you can do a couple of things.

One, is you can set up encryption at rest,

which is something that you need to make sure your

distribution or your your setup supports.

That means that whenever the Secret is stored on disk

in the etc database, that it's encrypted.

The other thing is, since it's a different resource than

ConfigMaps, if you have properly set up RBAC

in your cluster, you can limit who can access Secrets.

Now, we don't need to really go through any of these

examples because it's exactly the same way you would use

ConfigMaps. You can bring them in as files.

You can bring them as environment variables.

However you want.

